UNATCO TRAINING COURSE UNATCO TRAINING FACILITIES - CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES JAIME REYES I figured you'd be sick of drills by now.
Hopefully our training exercises will be more interesting than what they've had you doing at the Academy.
Open the door by clicking the right mouse button.
The right button uses items in the world.
The key on the desk opens encryption-based nanotech locks.
When you pick it up, it will automatically be added to your key ring.
Use the key to unlock the door and proceed to the next area.
You're going to get a lot of equipment during these exercises.
Press F2 to view your current goals and any notes you may decide to take.
On a typical mission, a UNATCO agent's objectives are logged electronically so that he can stay on-task at all times.
Now pick up a weapon and try to break open those crates.
One of them's indestructible, but the other contain things you might find useful.
Now pick up the lockpick and use it to open the door.
Lock-picking takes time and expends the self-assembling resources of modern lockpicks.
Just be patient and remember your training.
At higher skill levels, you won't need as much time or lockpick resources to pick a lock.
Doors have two strength values.
The Door Strength tells you how much damage a door takes before being destroyed.
The Lock Strength tells you how many lockpicks will be required to pick the lock.
Some doors have an infinite strength and an infinite lock strength.
That means you have to find a key.
The code to the door has been stored in that datacube.
Right-click on the datacube to read the contents, then type the code into the keypad.
You activate the keypad with the right mouse button, just like you activate a datacube or any object in the world.
DATACUBE We'll make this one easy for you.
Jaime JAIME REYES Use the disposable multitools on the table to hack the keypad up ahead.
A multitool's resouces are finite.
When a tool is depleted, it becomes useless.
The manual describes other uses for the multitool.
At higher skill levels, you'll need less time and multitool resources to hack a given device.
BOOK UNATCO TRAINING MANUAL Section 3C: Multitools A "multitool" is not really a tool at all -- not in the usual sense of the word -- but a disposable electronic device that utilizes electromagnetic resonance detection and frequency modulation to dynamically alter the flow of current through almost any non-hardened circuitry.
Skilled agents can use the multitool to manipulate code locks, cameras, autogun turrets, alarms, or other security elements.
Note that multitools CANNOT be used for computer information extraction (see Section 5A: Hacking).
DATACUBE Almost done, but one quick note: I'm not exactly the expert on this sort of thing -- for that you'll have to check in with Sam Carter when you get to Liberty Island -- but remember that there's any number of other ways to open a door, including using explosives or finding a security computer.
Jaime UNATCO TROOP I'm here to pick up all munitions and equipment.
Thanks for the cooperation, Agent.
You aren't done yet.
Got you running the course, huh?
Don't sweat it; everybody has to do it once, even the special agents.
Carry on with the training, Agent.
I'm just here to take care of your gear.
So far, so good.
This thing's a bitch, isn't it?
Last time I did it.
Man, I sprained my ankle on the jumping part.
They should get rid of crazy stuff like that.
Someone'll break their neck.
Hand in your equipment.
That's right: no cheating.
You've got to start the next section without arms or tools.
Rules are rules.
JAIME REYES Lying in front of you is a brave cadet who volunteered to be rendered unconscious for this next training exercise.
Highlight and search him to find the key to the medical room.
Afterward, pick up his body and place it on the medical table so that one of my aides can revive him once the exercise is over.
Good work.
I'll get someone down there immediately to revive Private Winslow.
Move on to the next area.
You can bet this won't be the last time we send you into a dark room.
Turn on your light augmentation and find the exit on the other side.
Just press F12, by default.
You're not a mech, but you're enough of a machine to need repair bots now and then.
If you used up some bioelectric energy getting through the dark area, for example, this contraption can charge you back up.
Congratulations, you completed Phase 1.
Move over the ramp into the next rooms to begin learning movement skills.
We'll be watching you through the cameras, like the one you can see up in the corner.
In the field, remember that terrorists sometimes use cameras like this in their security-grids to set off alarms and alert guards to your location.
Jump across the platforms.
You'll have to crouch to get under those pipes.
If you fall use the stairs to begin again.
You need to go through the door up ahead, but it's blocked.
Those wooden crates are too big to jump and too heavy to lift, so use the metal crates near the wall to build steps.
Now go up the ladder at the other end of the room.
By default, you look up and use the arrow keys to climb.
We get some complaints about this swimming obstacle because the water's contaminated.
Recruits forget to grab the HazMat suit and end up in my office.
Not pretty.
Or they forget that they have to put the suit on by selecting it and pressing the left mouse button.
Remember that the HazMat is disposable; you can wear it only once, and it operates only for a fixed duration.
Use the ramp on the other side of the pool to climb out.
These medical bots, normally used for quick-healing, are of particular interest to you, JC, because you need a bot's help to install new augmentations.
If you took any damage during the swim, now's a good time to get patched up.
UNATCO TROOP I'm here to pick up all munitions and equipment.
Thanks for the cooperation, Agent.
GUNTHER HERMANN Welcome to the combat training area.
I am Gunther Hermann and I will be monitoring your progress here.
We will start with weapon familiarization.
Your first exercise will be to learn a little about aiming and targeting.
Step up to the shooting range to the west.
The targets are released by using the buttons on the counter.
Release the first target and take a few shots with one of the pistols until it is destroyed.
Notice the targeting reticle appears when you aim at a target.
Good.
If you hold your aim for a few seconds before firing you will notice the reticle starts out wide and tightens as you hold.
The longer you aim at the target without moving the greater your accuracy will become.
Release the second target and aim before shooting this time.
Good work.
Now proceed to the next area.
This is the rifle range.
Here you will learn one of the ways skill level makes a difference in your accuracy.
Step up to the shooting range.
The targets are released by using the buttons on the counter.
Release the first target and destroy it with the rifle.
Use the rifle's scope by pressing the left bracket key "[" to turn the scope on.
Excellent.
Now we are going to raise your skill with rifles to Master level.
Release the second target and destroy it.
Good work.
As you can see, higher skills give you better range, accuracy, and effectiveness.
Proceed to the next area when you are ready.
This is the demolitions training area.
First you will learn to use a LAM as a proximity mine.
Approach the bay window and you will see a LAM placed on the target board on the black and red wall.
Press the first button next to the window and a security bot will be released.
Watch as he nears the LAM.
LAMs placed on walls are proximity triggered.
This time you will place your own LAM.
Take a LAM from the munitions bay and proceed to the red and black wall below.
Get as close to the wall as possible when you place the LAM.
If you aren't close enough, the LAM will fall to the ground and detonate.
Very good, Agent Denton.
You may proceed to the next area for more demolitions training.
UNATCO TROOP You'll need a few extra LAMs for the demolitions area.
Here, catch!
I just like to kid around.
Gets boring down here.
Didn't have my boots polished.
That's why they put me here.
They just make up excuses because they like to harass us.
This place would run a lot smoother if they'd just rotate assignments, instead of always making you feel like you're being punished.
Bastards.
I don't have to take this crap.
There's lots of things I could be doing.
I had offers on Wall Street, you know.
Corporate work's not so glamorous, but it sure pays better.
One of these days, I'm going to resign.
Then they'll be sorry.
Then they'll wish they'd treated the troops a little better.
GUNTHER HERMANN Next you will need to breech the doors in the hallway.
Throw a LAM down to the end of the hall.
Once it blows proceed down the corridor.
Notice how the wooden door was destroyed and the metal and barred doors remained.
Remember this for future reference.
Beyond the destroyed door you can see a damaged piece of wall you can also breech with a LAM.
Try that now.
Excellent!
Notice that the wall is opened.
Look for other weakened walls such as this and your LAM and other explosives will allow you to breech them.
Continue through that breech and onto the next section.
The area beyond the door is the grenade defusing facility.
Here you will learn how to remove planted explosive device.
At each of the corners of this area you will find a LAM planted on the wall.
You must disarm and remove all 4 LAM's before you can proceed to the next section of training.
You will need to move up to the LAM quickly and defuse it by right clicking.
A second right click will remove the LAM from the wall.
A word of warning, Agent Denton.
This was a simulated experience; real LAMs will not be so forgiving.
You may proceed to the next area.
ANNA NAVARRE Now you will learn to move quietly and conceal yourself, so that you will be able to avoid a confrontation altogether.
The test is simple.
Get to the far north door without being spotted by the guards below.
If one of them sees you, he will sound an alarm and lock the door.
DATACUBE UNATCO STEALTH GUIDELINES Overview Stealth is a vital component of all UNATCO operations; when implemented correctly, stealth missions result in the lowest possible ratio of agent and civilian casualties to hostile losses.
Situational awareness is key, and agents should not only be familiar with the tactical opportunities offered by their immediate environment, but how those opportunities can be exploited to their advantage with the appropriate equipment.
Tech goggles allow agents to operate in low-light environments such as offices or labs where illumination might otherwise attract attention.
With binoculars, an agent can survey an opponent's disposition and determine the best way to evade or eliminate their defenses.
A rifle or crossbow equipped with scope and silencing modifications can be used to interdict targets from a considerable distance, significantly compromising hostile resistance.
Other features of the environment can also be used by an agent to enhance their ability to operate covertly or to create useful distractions: disabling security cameras, subverting autoguns, and reprogramming bots are all viable tactics employed by experienced agents in the field.
ANNA NAVARRE Remember: don't let the guards see you.
Use the crates for cover and crouch when you move.
Always remember the four basic tactics to avoid detection: crouch behind concealment, stay behind enemies, move slowly to avoid making noise, and use shadows to conceal yourself.
Be alert to every possibility.
You blew it.
The alarm just closed the north door.
Return to the control room to the south and press the button in the overlook window to restart the test.
This time, don't let the guards see you.
Stay crouched, stay behind the crates, and stay behind the guards.
The guards can be distracted.
Pick up and throw an object near them, and they will go investigate the noise.
Bottles, plants, flasks -- many things will work.
Very good.
I hope you remember this lesson, Agent.
They have assigned us to be partners, and I will not stop to hold your hand and repeat myself when we are facing a real enemy.
JAIME REYES Now for the last test.
You have to find a way across the river to the exit on the other side.
There's more than one way to get there, depending on your approach and the skills you want to use.
It's up to you.
Make use of the IFF system to identify enemies.
The crosshairs will highlight red over enemies, green over allies, and white over neutrals.
Careful around this TNT.
You can pick up the boxes and move them around, but crouch to set them down.
I don't want to have to reattach your arms.
DATACUBE Hey J.
, want to cross the water?
Lower the bridge.
The code is: 0098 It's either that or get all wet.
Jaime JAIME REYES Step up to each hologram for more info.
When you're through, go out the opposite door.
A deployment of UNATCO troopers is the central component of all UN peacekeeping occupations.
The NSF: the biggest terrorist threat in the U.
S.
This national militia group thinks it is fighting the Second American Revolution.
Step over to the communicator.
There's someone who wants to talk to you.
Manderley likes to hear which agents find this area.
They're usually the ones who take terrorists by surprise in the field.
Your brother, Paul, for instance.
All right, carry on.
Don't let it go to your head.
This Page Industries walking turret, marketed to governments worldwide, is the workhorse of most national military forces.
Due to the heavy armor, they take little damage from ordinary bullets.
If you come up against a bot, you should use an EMP grenade, scrambler grenade, or some kind of explosive.
An inexpensive security bot, a favorite of Third World countries and corporate security divisions.
Not so mobile, but don't be fooled: we've lost plenty of agents to its well-armored assault gun.
Like other bots, it's difficult to damage with ordinary bullets.
This is the old augmentation technology, hopefully about to be phased out.
Notice the reliance on electronics and servomechanics.
A maintenance nightmare.
If I had two credits for every repair manual they've made me file in my office in the Med Lab.
The Coalition's new nano-augmented agents are nearly indistinguishable from the general population, except that you and your brother don't know how to smile, even for a picture.
BOB PAGE Sufficiently impressive.
An early success for the whole organization.
You from the United Nations?
BOB PAGE Your augmentations are a-go.
The real test comes next: active duty.
BOB PAGE Yes.
Yes, you are.
INTRO BOB PAGE Your appointment to FEMA should be finalized within the week.
I've already discussed the matter with the Senator.
BOB PAGE He didn't really have a choice.
BOB PAGE Oh yes, most certainly.
When I mentioned that we could put him on the priority list for the Ambrosia vaccine, he was so willing it was almost pathetic.
BOB PAGE Why contain it?
Let it spill over into the schools and churches, let the bodies pile up in the streets.
In the end, they'll beg us to save them.
There's not enough vaccine to go around, and the underclasses are starting to get desperate.
BOB PAGE Of course they're desperate.
They can smell their death, and the sound they'll make rattling their cage will serve as a warning to the rest.
I hope you're not underestimating the problem.
The others may not go as quietly as you think -- intelligence indicates they're behind the problems in Paris.
BOB PAGE A bunch of pretentious old men playing at running the world.
But the world left them behind long ago.
We are the future.
BOB PAGE UNATCO?
I have someone in place, though.
I'm more concerned about Savage -- he's relocated to Vandenberg.
BOB PAGE Our biochem corpus is far in advance of theirs, as is our electronic sentience.
And their.
ethical inflexibility has allowed us to make progress in areas they refuse to consider.
BOB PAGE Among other things -- but I must admit that I have been somewhat disappointed in the performance of the primary unit.
It's currently undergoing preparation and will be operational within six months.
My people will continue to report on his progress.
If necessary, the primary will be terminated.
BOB PAGE We've had to endure much, you and I, but soon there will be order again, a new age.
Aquinas spoke of the mythical City on the Hill.
Soon that city will be a reality, and we will be crowned its kings.
Or better than kings.
Gods.
NYC - LIBERTY ISLAND PILOT My orders are to stay here.
I'd let the bots do the fighting if I were you.
I'm glad this thing has bullet-proof glass.
ALEX JACOBSON Heads up, JC.
Your brother Paul is on his way to meet you at the dock.
The NSF is raiding the island, and shots have been fired.
I repeat: find Paul.
I will monitor your situation from HQ.
I thought you were in Hong Kong.
I might as well start using your codename.
Think I'd miss my brother's first day?
What's going on?
A few of them got away, but we trapped the rest in the Statue.
Looks like a textbook assault.
The bots are holding the perimeter, but my orders are to hold back and send you in alone.
I think someone high up wants to see how you handle the situation.
I don't mind a test, but UNATCO better issue some hardware.
Stick with the prod.
It will stun your opponents or knock them unconscious.
A nonlethal takedown is always the most silent way to eliminate resistance.
Just in case, though, Manderley wants you to pick an additional weapon: a sniper rifle, a GEP gun, or a minicrossbow.
I'll take the rifle.
Your targets will be human beings.
Keep that in mind.
What's the first move?
Give me the GEP gun.
They have a security bot on patrol near the Statue entrance.
What's the first move?
Sometimes you've got to make a silent takedown.
With these tranquilizer darts, you'll have another nonlethal way to take down an enemy in addition to the prod.
What's the first move?
If you can get to the north dock, a UNATCO informant will give you a key to the Statue doors.
He responds to the code-phrase "iron and copper.
" You could avoid a lot of fighting, though, if you found a back way into the Statue.
We think he's being held on the ground floor.
We don't yet know why the terrorists would risk an open assault.
I'm going to watch the coast.
I messed up an assassination attempt on one of the Triad leaders in Hong Kong.
You better head to the Statue.
How was your graduation?
At the time I could have cared less that Mom and Dad came to mine, but it was a good thing.
The U.
N.
threw a dinner in honor of me, the first nano-augmented agent.
Guess I must be old news.
I don't know if you remember his old brown suit.
That doesn't sound like our father.
our augmentations.
I believe that much.
It was nice to have done something for him and Mom.
I wish someone could have been there for you.
Best thing is to let the bots handle the ground assault.
You might be able to find some supplies in the comm van by the helipad.
Hard to believe this rock used to be a tourist attraction, huh?
I'll keep watch on this side of the island.
TERRORIST 1 That's the difference right there.
Just take a look at him.
TERRORIST 2 Bad?
TERRORIST 1 They cut off his arm, replaced half of his face.
TERRORIST 2 Hermann, right?
He's a good soldier.
Killed three of our men.
TERRORIST 1 They'd've replaced his whole body if it would've improved performance.
If that's how you judge a man -- by performance -- then eventually it's not about people but upgrades, versions, functionality.
TERRORIST 2 All I know is we could use a few mechs for ops like this.
TERRORIST 1 Soon as we buy into the cult of the machine we're just like them.
TERRORIST 2 Rhetoric, always more rhetoric.
MERCENARY THUG .
like Billy the Kid, man.
We’re outlaws.
COLLINS The bots have them bottled up, sir.
We'd go right in, if it weren't for the hold-back order.
COLLINS Gunther went rogue on us.
When the order came, he wouldn't pull back.
Now you get to bail him out.
Welcome aboard, Agent.
If they come this way, I got 'em, sir.
Well, I certainly see the family resemblance.
Those rebels are no match for our bots.
ALEX NSF everywhere, JC.
Your orders are to shoot on sight.
A UNATCO informant on the North Dock can get you inside the statue.
Look for a Bum.
Identify yourself with the phrase "Iron and Copper.
" If you want to make a covert approach, remember the academy stealth course: stay out of their field of view, walk slowly to stay quiet, and crouch behind cover.
Or if you have to get your hands dirty, remember that a headshot is a lethal takedown.
Be careful; the NSF have set up patchwork security systems here.
KAPLAN Afraid base is under lockdown 'til the danger's gone, Agent Denton.
How you guys holding up?
KAPLAN UNATCO command made us pull back, I guess for Gunther's sake.
What's the deal?
We're ready to go in.
KAPLAN I hear ya.
Manderley's right: you nano-augs are born and bred killers.
KAPLAN Better load up.
There are some crates of ammo stashed in the antenna shaft behind the helipad.
Might also want to check out the comm van next to it.
The code's 0451.
I won't let you down.
KAPLAN My tactic, when there's no cover like this, is to pick 'em off from fifty or a hundred paces with a scope.
What do you think?
I scored an extra one from a couple of thugs we dropped down by the dock; you can have it for 700 credits.
I also picked up 10 mm ammo and some crossbow tranquilizer darts -- say 200 for one and 60 for the other.
We're cops, after all.
KAPLAN Ask me, I think we should frag 'em all.
You trespass on UNATCO property, you get pumped full of lead.
KAPLAN Thought your nano-augs were supposed to be badass killing machines.
Guess I was wrong.
KAPLAN Some advice.
You get out there, you're gonna have to tangle with some real sons- of-bitches.
Best thing is to pick 'em off from fifty or a hundred paces with a scope.
I scored an extra one from a couple of thugs we dropped down by the dock; you can have it for 700 credits.
I also picked up 10 mm ammo and some crossbow darts -- say 200 for one and 60 for the other.
KAPLAN Sure, I will, but 'long as command has the rest of us on parade drills, someone might as well put this hardware to use.
KAPLAN Just attach this baby to your pistol and you're in business.
2-3.
1 KAPLAN So much for that "minimum-force" approach.
1 KAPLAN You better have the right equipment, or you'll be sorry.
2 KAPLAN You wanna wax some thugs, you better load up.
KAPLAN If you're gonna clean this place out, you're gonna need hardware.
KAPLAN Check back after you get your op bonus.
KAPLAN They don't pay me so good.
I'm gonna wait for someone who's got the money.
KAPLAN Guess you'll have to go with that "minimum-force" approach, huh?
) TROOP Welcome aboard, Agent.
Everything was clear an hour ago.
Then, BOOM!
My orders are to hang back.
If I catch a sight of the NSF commander at the top of the Statue, I'm gonna take a shot.
Screw Manderley.
The thugs must be desperate to attack us here.
I don't like just standing around, but orders are orders.
Whatever was in that barge, the NSF sure wanted it bad.
Careful, Agent.
Rebels are crawling all over the place.
I've got this area secured.
DATACUBE Brother, I've set up the turrets and cameras in the statue ruins.
a hasty defense, but since we won't be here long, it should work.
The security computer login is: NSF001.
The password is: smashthestate.
ALEX This power box must have been damaged in the raid.
Don't cross through the arcs.
I'm also picking up an EMP field here.
if you're not careful it'll suck away your bioelectrical energy.
It all happened an hour ago -- the barge docked and the NSF moved right in on it, offloading the cargo into speedboats.
Our undercover man Harley Filben should be somewhere out on the docks now.
FILBEN About time you showed up.
The statue is copper on an iron frame, right?
FILBEN Password's enough, pal.
Don't think you know something about the Lady I don't.
My dad did tours out here.
FILBEN Depends.
You get your man out, take back the Statue, whatever, but I know the commander and I don't want to see him get hurt.
Here's a picture so you don't make a mistake.
FILBEN I'll take your word.
Here's the key to the front entrance.
The commander's not much of a soldier; he'll surrender as soon as he sees you.
I need him alive because he's my main contact at the NSF.
If he's dead, I don't have much of a business.
How do you know so much about the commander?
FILBEN He's my main contact in the NSF.
I need him alive and out on bail.
FILBEN At least he has a chance if he's alive.
I warned him, you know.
I said right to his face, "Don't take weapons into the Lady.
That makes you as bad as UNATCO.
UNATCO's here to put the pieces back together.
FILBEN Ask me, I think the government did it.
They want people to think the NSF are terrorists.
I better get paid good for this.
Remember, you said you wouldn't go in shooting.
My dad used to say, "If copper can get old and green and need repairs, the same with our liberty.
" Funny, and that was before the United Nations even had an army.
I worked here one summer picking up people's trash.
Rotten job.
It used to be wall-to-wall people out here from all over the world.
Everywhere some other language you can't understand.
In the line of duty I may have to use force.
FILBEN Buddy, I don't know.
The commander's not much of a soldier; he'll surrender right away.
FILBEN He's my main contact at the NSF.
I need him alive and out on bail, or I don't have much of a business.
You can forget the key.
Do you work for UNATCO or not?
FILBEN There's more than one way into the Statue.
You wanna kill rebels -- you're on your own.
Yeah -- you should sneak in from the back.
Less chance of a shootout that way.
What's the deal?
FILBEN Sorry.
I'm not playing along this time.
But that doesn't mean I'm in love with the NSF.
I told 'em, "You bring the guns into the Lady, you're just as bad as UNATCO.
UNATCO's here to put the pieces back together.
FILBEN Ask me, I think the government did it.
They want people to think the NSF are terrorists.
None of these guys is like my best pal, but who wants to see a bunch of dead bodies, right?
I'll come through next time.
Don't worry.
If you're that determined, I'm sure you can get in another way.
WOMAN I get a cut for bringing him over.
WOMAN I'm not that high-level.
The more elite troops -- they're the ones that took over the ship and unloaded it into speedboats.
I think we're supposed to be a diversion.
WOMAN That's all I know.
The commander gave me a 10 mm clip, a box of 30-ought-six ammo, and some crossbow darts and said, "Keep your head down" -- huh, like I'm gonna take on UNATCO troops.
Want 'em?
You can have the clip for 175, the 30.
06 for 300, and the darts for 50.
But if I was you, I'd avoid a head-on attack altogether and not even use the key Filben got.
I'd go in the Statue from the back.
Less security that way.
WOMAN Put a slug in the commander for me.
He's the reason my brother's dead.
Give me the 30.
06 ammo.
WOMAN Thanks.
WOMAN The commander's the whole reason my neighbourhood turned into a war zone.
Someone should stick him full of these things like a roast pig.
(WOMAN Sure you can't buy some ammo?
WOMAN Well, come back if you get the chance.
I sure could use the money.
WOMAN I'd give you a break but I'm in a kind of a tight spot myself.
WOMAN You know where to find me.
) 4.
WOMAN That's all I got.
Thanks for the extra cash.
At least I got SOMETHING for coming all the way out here.
ALEX Good thinking; you might be able to avoid some of the security by entering this way.
A shame, isn't it?
The French terrorist group Silhouette claims that France was wrong to give the U. S. the Statue.
We think they planned the bombing.
I think Gunther is being held beyond this laser triggered alarm.
If you don't want to set off the alarm, you can either hack the control panel in the doorway or find a way around.
My blueprint of the Statue shows a few airshafts.
The NSF put a commercial-grade security bot in this area.
You can either avoid its patrol route or, if you're feeling lucky, try to take it out with EMP grenades or explosives.
I wouldn't recommend taking it on with small arms.
Gunther's in that room.
One of our top agents.
This security setup is strictly amateur stuff -- keep an eye out for ways to bypass it.
These old pre-milenial buildings are riddled with ventilation shafts and maintenance tunnels.
DATACUBE So many people use that ATM each day that it's busted 90% of the time.
But if it's working, you might need some cash today for the pub crawl we've got planned in the city.
Don't let the tourists get you down.
See you there straight, sweetie.
Accnt#: 230023 PIN#: 4558 Johnathan--your husband to be.
PS) I was serious last night--I really want to get married in the Statue.
We met there on duty and all our friends work there.
DATACUBE A Lesson for Our President Family News Network -- Dave Wary Editorial When the other kids on my block elected me King of the World, a political office open (thankfully) only to eight-year-olds, I moved quickly to consolidate my power.
I declared that all subsequent elections were forbidden, that the office of King was reserved to me and my descendants for all eternity.
I don't remember what morsels of political philosophy were hurled at me.
"That ain't fair!
" perhaps, or "You can't do that!
" My rebuttal?
"Yes I can.
I'm King.
" All subsequent debate involved rocks.
Even Gretchen, green-eyed lovely Gretchen, held me pinned to the ground as the others asserted their own right to the throne with whatever stones happened to be within easy reach.
With a 35 percent approval rating after the U. N. funding fiasco, President Mead should reflect that these children -- and millions of other free thinkers -- have reached voting age.
Who wants to cast the first stone?
GUNTHER HERMANN Agent!
Open the door.
Get me a weapon.
They had us surrounded.
I was forced to surrender.
I am ready to counterattack.
Now everyone will see why I need a skull-gun.
The rebels will soon wish they had killed me.
GUNTHER HERMANN Command should not have left us to be surrounded.
I think you lucked out this time.
GUNTHER HERMANN Agent Navarre and I were ready to go in, but for no reason they said pull back.
I do not retreat.
Please give me a weapon and move out of the way.
Take my pistol.
GUNTHER HERMANN That will be adequate.
I will secure this level.
You proceed up the stairs to the command center at the top.
I will clean out the lower level.
You go after the leader.
A recruit is very valuable if he can operate in a team.
I'll handle the enemy.
GUNTHER HERMANN Excuse that I have forgotten your brother Paul Denton and the infinite power of nano-augmentation.
Please retreat to a safe location.
GUNTHER HERMANN Go ahead.
Advance up the stairs to the command center at the top.
I will take my rusty metal bones and sweep away into the junk pile.
Now I see the reason for the pull-back.
They wanted to show off their new nanoaugmentation technology.
MERCENARY THUG Did they find the shipment?
NSF TERRORIST Yeah, we got the whole supply.
You can see the ship's lights crossing the bay.
MERCENARY THUG Guess y'all were right.
So why aren't we pulling out?
NSF TERRORIST Mike's on the horn.
JoJo wants a lead on the distribution network.
MERCENARY THUG Hell, we don't have enough men to protect what we've got.
NSF TERRORIST That's what JoJo wants.
MERCENARY THUG I wonder.
How's a guy with a tattooed forehead get to be an NSF colonel?
Pardon me, but back in Alabama we wouldn't let a man who wears earrings plan a military operation.
NSF TERRORIST I'd watch what I say about JoJo.
He's got a temper.
MERCENARY THUG He's a punk and he's gonna get us all killed.
NSF TERRORIST The NSF is strong because it represents everyone's interests.
MERCENARY THUG Yeah, yeah.
ALEX Gunther has reestablished contact.
He says you helped him escape.
Good work.
(Good.
You're nearing the command center.
Agent Hermann remains in captivity on the ground floor, but we can probably get him out.
Keep moving.
) Some news, JC.
The NSF targeted a shipment of the plague vaccine, Ambrosia.
We can't locate it.
See if the leader will surrender when you reach the command post.
We'd like to interrogate him.
NSF TERRORIST 1 Let's get out of here.
NSF TERRORIST 2 I'm standing my ground.
NSF TERRORIST 1 Someone tripped the alarm downstairs.
They're closing in.
NSF TERRORIST 2 That is it, Private.
We knew it might come to this.
NSF TERRORIST 1 What good are we to the NSF it we end up dead?
NSF TERRORIST 2 If UNATCO breached the perimeter, then it's already too late.
Get ready to fight.
ALEX Easy.
We want you to take this one alive and conscious.
Find out what you can about the shipment, then turn him over to one of the troopers.
GOLD Don't shoot!
I surrender!
GOLD You're too late.
It's on its way back to the people, and you can't do a damn thing about it.
LEO GOLD I AM the people.
GOLD Ask away.
We already won this round.
GOLD We're just giving the ordinary people the same chance to survive as the bureaucrats in Washington.
GOLD I think the government made the plague on purpose to get rid of population growth.
ALEX That might have been over the line, JC.
I don't know.
Better head back to base on the west side of the island.
Objective complete.
ALEX Well done.
I will pass on your orders to the troopers.
Report back to base on the west side of the island.
Mission complete.
GOLD Don't believe me?
It's all in the numbers.
For a hundred years, there's been a conspiracy of plutocrats against ordinary people.
GOLD Number one: In 1945 corporations paid 50 percent of federal taxes.
Now they pay about 5 percent.
Number two: In 1900 90 percent of Americans were self-employed; now it's about two percent.
GOLD It's called consolidation.
Strengthen governments and corporations, weaken individuals.
With taxes, this can be done imperceptibly over time.
GOLD Yeah, the secret police.
You're just bullies for a completely illegitimate government in Washington.
GOLD The entire executive branch is hand-picked.
Nineteen of the last twenty-three U. S. presidents have been members of the Trilateral Commission.
The Trilateral Commission is financed by the Rockefellers and the Rotschilds.
Anyone can become a member.
GOLD But not everyone does.
That's why they call it the "secret government.
" You can't fight ideas with bullets.
Do you ever ask what it's for?
The surveillance, the police, the shoot-on-sight laws?
Is that freedom?
UNATCO teaches teenagers to fight when it still seems like a game, and -- look at you!
-- you're a killing machine!
Who's the scary one, huh?
Me or you?
The more of us you kill, the more that secessionism lives in the hearts of the people.
Ever wonder why big car companies pay two percent tax while the guys on the assembly line pay forty?
Corporations are so big you don't even know who you're working for.
That's terror.
Terror built into the system.
( ALEX That's over the line.
What did I just tell you?
We won already.
Report back to base.
) ( ALEX Gunther slipped out on his own.
Report back to base.
) TROOP 1 The chief finally let us loose -- we were right behind you and cut through them like a hot knife through butter.
I'll take it from here.
Good work, Agent.
We're gonna lock this guy away for a long time.
TROOP 2 They sent us to pick up the pieces.
We've already searched the bodies and delivered the enemy munitions to the quartermaster.
Don't worry about the bodies -- we'll handle the cleanup.
Someone shoulda put a slug in the commander's head.
I guess you were just following orders up there.
(I'm glad you had the guts to take out the commander.
You got the right idea.
Cap the bastards before the lawyers get involved.
) Benson touched off a gas trap -- nasty.
Next time, leave a few for us.
Finally -- someone nano-augmented who also knows how to fight.
We already have units in Manhattan.
This isn't over yet.
I'd sure like to find out what this was all about.
We've got the situation under control.
Heck of a first day, sir.
All quadrants are secure.
Nice work, Agent.
FILBEN You're a man of your word.
I like that.
I better get my money on time.
FILBEN I heard about the hit.
Guess you changed your mind.
How'm supposed to get back to the city?
Swim?
I don't rat the NSF if it's going to be a UNATCO slaughter.
I thought I made that clear.
( FILBEN Why the hell'd I come here if no one needs my help?
FILBEN I've been standing here for an hour.
I better get paid for this.
FILBEN Bet the NSF won't try that trick again.
I'd better get my money on time.
(You guys took out my main NSF contact just now.
I hope you’re happy.
How'm supposed to get back to the city?
Swim?
I don't rat the NSF if it's going to be a UNATCO slaughter.
I thought I made that clear.
) DRIFTER WOMAN What?
I'm just waiting for a ride.
Filben said I'd get 200 for this.
He'd better not jerk me around.
You got a problem?
Leave me be.
) KAPLAN Heard you cleaned the place out.
KAPLAN That's exactly right.
We're already gearing up to hunt these sons-of-bitches door-to-door in Manhattan.
Need some hardware?
I scored an extra scope from a couple of thugs we dropped down by the dock; you can have it for 700 credits.
I also picked up 10 mm ammo and some crossbow darts -- say 200 for one and 60 for the other.
KAPLAN Carter?
He don't care.
NSF goods are the spoils of war.
Hey, we're risking our lives out here.
KAPLAN Glad you're coming around to our way of doing things.
Need some hardware?
KAPLAN Check back after you get your op bonus.
KAPLAN They don't pay me so good.
I'm gonna wait for someone who's got the money.
TROOP Way to go, sir.
Gunther should have followed orders.
I can't wait to get to New York and finish the job.
Situation normal, sir.
How did things look in the Statue?
So they were after Ambrosia.
We think they've taken it back to the city.
UNATCO makes sure the limited supply of vaccine gets to government agencies and key industries.
You killed a lot of people tonight.
I'll handle things out here.
You better get to Manderley's office on Level 2 and report for duty.
Get inside.
I'll meet you in Manderley's office.
Alex said something about an Ambrosia shipment.
We might have found out from the leader where they’re taking it.
We don’t know their location?
You better get to his office on Level 2 and report for duty.
Get inside.
I'll meet you in Manderley's office.
NYC - UNATCO HQ NEWSPAPER Mead Bucks Congress APR - Washington, D. C. Defying Congress for the third time this year, President Mead unilaterally paid the United States' late dues to the United Nations.
"Like good tenants, we must pay our rent on time," he told reporters.
Leaders of both parties criticized the move.
"Where does he get the cash?
" asked Senator Ridon (D-Illinois).
"Clearly from some budget item yet to be approved by this Congress.
" The Republicans were no kinder.
"This council member has been betrayed, and so has America," said Senator Osno Liverpoole (R-California).
"The Congress came together to approve a UNATCO presence on U. S. soil, but we did not write a blank check.
No, sir.
A superpower does not pay rent.
" LLOYD Good shootin', sir.
Heard you wiped out the whole pack.
Welcome to UNATCO.
Way to go, sir.
I thought Gunther was a goner.
It's my first day, too.
I'm pretty excited.
I was in your class at the Academy.
You probably don't remember.
Manderley's office is on Level Two.
He's expecting you.
I've got to watch the doors.
DATACUBE Shannon-- Ammunition is disappearing again, so we're changing the door code for the comm van near the helipad.
New code: 0451.
(was: Nationalizing industry) Michelle (mdarwin//orbit.
4) wrote: >I just read that government regulators have >nationalized the third airline this year, and the >story was buried on the SIXTH PAGE of the >Times!
>No one seems to care that Uncle Sam is >gradually taking control of every means of >public transportation.
The FAA claims that the >airline's management botched the safety >records.
Lies!
Lies!
Have any of these records >been made public?
Do they even exist?
>Rule by executive order is now the norm.
>Goodbye, due process.
What you have to remember is that "we the people" are members of a republic, and you must learn to trust those that you choose to represent you.
The government is not a heartless machine running our lives; it is comprised of people, just like you, who deserve our trust and respect.
8873 Subject: Visitors Mr.
Manderley tells me we're expecting a new agent.
His assigned I. D. is "J. C. Denton.
" Please enter him in the log when he arrives and alert me immediately.
Thank you.
Janice Reed ALEX Check in with Manderley on Level Two.
SCOTT Come on in.
The retinal scanner can read blood-vessel patterns right through your sunglasses.
I heard there was a lot of fighting topside.
I couldn't hear a thing from down here.
I guess someone's got to watch HQ.
ALEX Remember that Mr.
Manderley wants to see you.
Level Two.
His secretary, Janice Reed, has your login and password.
BERRY We finally got to cap some rebels, eh Denton?
Bet the NSF won't try that trick again.
Good work up there.
TROOP Hell of a first day.
Didn't know the NSF had so many people in New York.
We'll finish the job when we get to Manhattan.
It was quiet 'til sundown, then all hell broke loose.
ALEX Before the briefing, you've got to go to Level Three for your equipment and a medical examination.
See Jaime Reyes in the med center and Sam Carter in the armory.
UNATCO TROOP That was a close one up there.
I don't like getting shot at.
Not a bit.
Thank God my shift is almost over.
I didn't know we'd be fighting a war.
UNATCO TROOP Glad to have you aboard.
Just making the rounds.
Save a few for the grunts next time, JC.
SHANNON How unprofessional.
Expecting a show?
Don't think I won't report this.
ALEX You found your office.
Did Janice give you your login?
I guess not.
Let's see: JCD, password "bionicman.
" BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK Welcome to UNATCO!
CLASSIFICATION: The U.
N.
This manual and all material that is not otherwise marked is classified as Angel/0A.
If you are not Angel/0A or above, report immediately to your supervisor or face disciplinary action.
Other classifications will be explained upon reaching higher clearance.
In its efforts to combat terrorism, the U.
N.
has created UNATCO for the swift deployment of a COORDINATED FORCE to counteract any insurgent operations.
You are justifiably proud to be part of this organization: your physical capabilities place you within the upper one percent of national ground combat units, while your mental capabilities have been honed to sharpness by the UNATCO Academy.
But as part of a larger organization, you also understand the necessity to HEED ORDERS from your superiors without hesitation; your superiors are typically briefed on matters for which you may not be cleared, and hesitation on the part of an agent can result in the serious IMPAIRMENT of mission objectives and attendant CASUALTIES.
UNATCO has faith in you, and this faith will be REWARDED in due time as your operational capacities are increased.
Brave the darkness, for you carry the torch of freedom.
BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK UNATCO and the Public In carrying out our duties, UNATCO agents often come in contact with the public.
You are a PEACEKEEPER, and your first objective is to safeguard human life.
Though terrorists may see an advantage in harming civilians, UNATCO agents do not.
Issue a warning before firing at a suspect and always instruct bystanders to "get down on the ground.
" Refrain from firing into large crowds.
Every civilian hurt is collateral damage.
However, keep in mind that no civilian with a clearance below Angel/0A should be trusted and may be a potential spy.
ANYONE can be a spy, and secrecy is our ally.
9868 Subject: greetings and nanotech briefings Hey JC, Guess I'll have to get used to calling you "J.
C.
" around the office.
Not sure where they came up with that, but at least they gave you the same last codename as your brother.
Anyways, whatever they've calling you, it's good to see a familiar name on the roster.
My first job here has been to read up on your augmentations.
I'm beginning to see why you found classes so easy.
EVERY NEURON IN YOUR HEAD has been augmented.
For example: the voice in your head (from an operator, someone here at HQ able to handle the scanning equipment in your skull and broadcast advice over your "infolink") leaps fully formed right into your temporal lobe, bypassing the eardrum and its sensory neurons.
And it's perfectly inaudible to everyone around you, of course.
Not to mention that the nanites clinging to your axons can both receive and transmit symbolic information, so if you ever need help, don't sweat it; someone at HQ probably already knows.
Come by if you want to hear more.
this is great stuff.
I do so without further comment.
Dr.
Reyes ---------------- By now, you've heard about the upcoming transition to nano-augmentation.
It's coming, but not as soon as you think.
UNATCO has only one nano-augmented agent, with a second just now graduating from the Academy.
It will be years before the program leaves the laboratory.
Your mechanical augmentations are NOT obsolete.
Some agents express concern that they will be "walking junk" in ten years.
One agent expressed their fears in an anonymous e-mail saying "Well be sld at flee markets,.
old gray golems for scareing the children.
So what about my legss?
What about my LIFE?
" [sic] Keep some perspective.
Prosthetics remain the only proven technology for enhancing human abilities.
Those who make the sacrifice are appreciated, commended, and saluted as heroes.
9868 Subject: Nano-Augmentation Stressors Nano-augmented agents will often encounter stress created by resentment among fellow agents, particularly those who have been mechanically augmented.
In an effort to secure freedom and liberty for those under their protection, many UNATCO agents have chosen to sacrifice social acceptance for mission performance by surgically replacing limbs and organs with mechanically or electronically enhanced equivalents.
But your nano-augmentations points the way to the future: thousands of microscopic, living, organic machines that exist in symbiosis with your body.
Because such augmentations create only minimal disfigurement, they are likely to be a source of friction between you and other mechanically augmented agents -- but it is important to understand that UNATCO is an organization where individuals must act in concert.
Each is important to the whole, and mutual understanding is essential to teams comprised of diverse human and augmented agents.
If you have any further questions or wish to discuss these issues, please feel free to send email to CarverEschells\\UNATCO.
768 to make an appointment.
And welcome to UNATCO, agent.
ALEX Your partner for the next assignment, Anna Navarre, is in the adjoining break room to the east.
Maybe you should introduce yourself.
(You found you office.
Did Janice give you your login?
I guess not.
Let's see: JCD, password: "bionicman.
") NEWSPAPER !
=!
==!
=== MIDNIGHT SUN ===!
==!
=!
Mead from Mars!
CAPE CANAVERAL -- NASA scientists confirmed that the eroded remains of the Alba Patera crater on Mars precisely match the face of President Mead.
"It's him!
" declared Senior Planetary Specialist Kevlar Umla.
"There's his nose, that ridge, see?
See the crater rim marking his hairline?
The way he combs his hair appearing in this region of parallel valleys?
" The White House had no comment.
However, Martin Wisdom, president of EA (Enemies of Aliens), told Midnight Sun: "This is the evidence we have been looking for, a warning that Mr.
Mead is not human.
He is probably a Martian General, a war hero, come here to conquer the Earth with the assistance of the United Nations.
" -- Ryan Allan, Staff Writer ANNA NAVARRE Are you sure you pressed the right button?
GUNTHER HERMANN I do not make mistakes of that kind.
ANNA NAVARRE Your hand might have slipped.
GUNTHER HERMANN No.
I wanted orange.
It gave me lemon-lime.
ANNA NAVARRE The machine would not make a mistake.
GUNTHER HERMANN It's the maintenance man.
He knows I like orange.
ANNA NAVARRE So you think the staff has some kind of plot.
GUNTHER HERMANN Yes.
They do it on purpose.
ANNA NAVARRE My new partner, JC Denton.
Don't tell me you're going to wear those sunglasses during a night operation.
GUNTHER HERMANN Better to look good than to have distractions of another agent who needs backup.
I just wanted so say that I look forward to working with you, Agent Navarre.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I've got to be briefed by Mr.
Manderley.
(Could you tell me how to find Jaime’s office?
) ANNA NAVARRE I do not expect you to perform as well as Agent Hermann, but the mission will require us to do more than frighten the NSF with our baggy coats that make us look bigger than we really are.
GUNTHER HERMANN For instance, not to be a man running into enemy lines without coordinated military assault.
GUNTHER HERMANN For instance, not to wipe out the enemy and then leave agents still captured in a locked cell.
ANNA NAVARRE I have to prepare for the mission.
I am not going to hold your hand.
You have your orders.
Get your check-up on Level 3, and let's get going.
GUNTHER HERMANN You will be working with Anna Navarre.
Manderley says, "Sit out this one.
" I am filing another protest.
I don't need sitting out.
A simple provision of a plasma rifle with laser sighting, and I am ready to go.
What will be decisive in street-fighting is experience.
Do not expect your augmentations to do the work for you.
BULLETINS Terrorism -- Crime or Conscience?
The question must be asked: is the global rise of terrorism a haphazard response to a decimated economy or is there a pattern?
Does UNATCO face coordinated ideological opposition?
Some groups -- Silhouette in France, for instance -- have declared a "Meme War," or "war of meanings" in their terminology.
They spread email and pamphlets that lampoon the U.
N.
's proposal for a one-world democracy, a tedious exercise in rudimentary propaganda.
With sophistries and doublespeak, they portray "freedom" as "obedience," "democracy" as "tyranny," and UNATCO as the perpetrator of terrorism -- an idea as shocking as it is reprehensible.
Other organizations, such as the self-proclaimed revolutionary National Seccessionist Forces (NSF) in the U.
S.
, claim allegiance to the Meme War, but are in fact no better than common criminals.
They desire territory and wealth at the expense of society at large.
Their "civil war" is merely a smokescreen for criminal activity.
Any population can be quickly turned against such "revolutionaries" simply by educating them about the U.
N.
's policies and goals.
-- Joseph Manderley, Director, UNATCO Terrorism -- Threat Profiling Symbolic attacks -- the Statue of Liberty bombing, the desecration of Soviet War Memorial in Berlin, the department-store shooting-sprees on Orchard Road in Singapore -- are the recourse of the weak.
They serve only to call attention to a group or cause that is of no more than marginal interest to the public.
But what distinguishes true terrorist activity is its gradual escalation towards genuine acts of war.
Fringe groups now have access to technology that allows direct assaults on governments, including the classic trio of nuclear, biological, or chemical weaponry (NBC).
But aside from direct assaults on a nation and its people, indirect attacks can cause considerable collateral damage -- rogue software can disrupt financial markets, communications, and military operations, while encryption programs allow terrorists to coordinate smuggling operations in secret right over the Net!
Drugs, guns, illegal immigrants, and even heavy equipment such as armored vehicles and cruise missiles are routinely traded across borders, aided and abetted by such software.
UNATCO -- the first organization with the technology, manpower, and authority to cope with such threats -- is an idea that is long overdue.
-- Joseph Manderley, Director, UNATCO Know Your Enemy -- NSF The National Secessionist Forces (NSF) remain a very real and increasingly widespread terrorist threat.
Ten years ago, in response to the Sporting Weapons Act of 2042, splinter groups from nearly every state militia refused to surrender their rifles, grenades, land mines, and other "collectibles" prohibited by the Act.
Unified under the charismatic leadership of Leon Woods, these isolated fanatics eventually formed the NSF with Woods assuming the rank of General.
Their intended goal: the "liberation" of Washington, Montana, Oregon, and Northern California.
While Woods died during his infamous "last stand" in 2045, his war machine continues what can only be termed an occupation of the United States, aided by an encrypted network designed by dissident computer scientists from San Francisco and Seattle.
Currently, the UNATCO Cryptography Division has had minimal success in cracking their communications, requiring more direct intelligence gathering techniques to be utilized.
The U.
N.
has declared war on the NSF.
Know Your Enemy -- Silhouette Famous for inserting 20th-century style commercials into the Net broadcast of the World Cup in 2050, Silhouette favors "feats of spectacle" over violence.
"Printed circuits, part of this nutritious breakfast," the announcer told children in one of the World Cup commercials.
"You ain't mech 'til you eat mech.
[A mech boy chews a memory chip.
] Boys who eat organics get stomped by their posthuman classmates.
[Mech boys in UNATCO helmets and metal boots take turns kicking another boy.
]" Despite their numerous pranks, these intellectuals, artists, and labor organizers pose a serious threat.
They are well-armed and have been linked to the murders of numerous European politicians and journalists.
They will not hesitate to use lethal force.
Know Your Enemy -- The Triads UNATCO surveillance of Hong Kong is currently a high priority given the renewed threat of Chinese organized crime in the form of the Triads.
Despite being a model of prosperity and technological leadership for decades, Hong Kong persists as a haven for organized crime.
The Triads, namely the Luminous Path and Red Arrow, vie for control of the ten-trillion credit shipping business, much of which supplies greater Asia with pirated technology, illegal drugs, and weapons.
Most disturbing of all, the Triads preach an ethic of technopiracy that has found enthusiastic support among small shopkeepers and businessmen who often aid the gangsters and buy their bootlegged software.
Gullible and greedy, this army of middlemen remain insensitive to how their violations of intellectual property and copyright laws damage the global information economy.
Know Your Enemy -- Other Threats UNATCO operatives have identified over 1250 terrorist organizations active in the world today, some too small to currently present a serious threat, but all eager to see one or more governments topple.
Groups such as the Templars (Europe) and "X-51" (Western U.
S.
) will be dealt with in subsequent volumes of "Know Your Enemy.
" JANICE REED Good work out there, Mr.
Denton.
Mr.
Manderley said you handled yourself nicely.
Welcome to UNATCO HQ.
Our little family keeps getting bigger.
Manderley available?
JANICE REED Yes, go right in.
By the way, your computer account is ready.
Login: JCD, password: "bionicman.
) JANICE REED He's waiting, JC.
DATACUBE Mr.
Manderley: Just FYI, your new password is knight_killer (I know you led that mission in Paris against that old terrorist organization or whatever it was).
Your login is still jmanderley.
1131 Subject: Skul-gun Might I sugest agin, a skul-gun for my head.
Yesterday in Batery Park, some scum we all know pushes smack for NSF gets jumpy and draws.
I take 2 .
22's, 1 in flesh, 1 in augs, befor I can get out that dam asalt gun.
If I could kil just by thought, it would be beter.
Is it my job to be a human target-practis backstop?
76490 Subject: Our Little Experiment Should be arriving soon.
Clear it for Domination/5F as soon as possible, but proceed with caution.
We have serious concerns about the primary unit and would like to avoid any potential contamination.
BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK UNATCO and the Police In carrying our their duties, UNATCO agents often work with other law- enforcement agencies.
We remain a small, elite organization.
Until our ranks expand, we must rely on the cooperation of local police, governments, intelligence agencies, and corporate security divisions.
Always be courteous when requesting information or filing an extradition request.
As our jurisdiction widens, we will inevitably experience conflicts with some local officials.
Do not resort to unnecessary intimidation in these situations, and report any problems to the appropriate UNATCO liaison.
Above all, an international law enforcement body requires the RESPECT and SUPPORT of all participating nations.
BOOK PROJECT DIBBUK Overview Domination/5F Clearance ONLY .
the noted failure of previous attempts to create a low profile rotary aircraft involved the acquisition and retrofitting of available military hardware that had neither the range, ceiling, nor electromagnetic transparency to avoid numerous eyewitness accounts or unauthorized military interactions.
In addition to exacerbating public misconceptions about governmental operations, such encounters also jeopardized several key missions.
PROJECT DIBBUK was initiated to address this issue through the creation of a "stealth" aircraft that could be used as a platform for a number of mission objectives.
(MANDERLEY You will behave like a professional.
That's an order.
Hey!
Who do you think you are?
That's enough, Agent.
MANDERLEY The man himself.
Splendid.
Do accept my apologies about the situation topside.
(MANDERLEY The academy, yes.
I thought they were teaching you discipline there.
Don’t ever kill a prisoner against my orders again.
Clear?
) MANDERLEY Don't despise training, my boy.
Even you would be worthless without the shaping touch of drills and studies.
Give me a chopper and a pilot and I'll handle it.
MANDERLEY I'm sure you could!
Yes indeed!
But we're having your brother head up the recovery team.
You'll work with Agent Anna Navarre.
Why don't we meet when you've seen Jaime for a medical checkup and received your equipment from Sam Carter?
You'll be briefed at that time.
(MANDERLEY By the way, did you see what happened to the soldier we sent into the statue?
He turned up dead.
Friendly fire?
MANDERLEY Not so friendly, I’m afraid.
I have opened an investigation.
Dismissed.
) MANDERLEY The med center and armory are on Level Three.
I've got work to do.
Come back when you've seen Carter and Reyes.
JANICE REED You've got to see Carter and Reyes before Manderley can brief you.
I guess the nanoaugmentation program is really about to take off.
Welcome to the family!
Most of the staff is on Level Three.
BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK UNATCO and the World For far too long terrorists have exploited international tensions and regional legislative variations to elude authorities.
A significant step was made towards eliminating these legal loopholes when U.
S.
President Philip Riley Mead lobbied the Congress to make the U.
S.
a UNATCO member nation: "Enough is enough!
" he declared in his landmark State of the Union address, and the citizens of the United States responded with enthusiastic endorsement of his position.
Not only did the United States become a charter member of UNATCO, but UNATCO headquarters are now located on Liberty Island in the shadow of that shattered monument to FREEDOM.
UNATCO deals not only with terrorist threats, but also any transgressions of the international legal code, including drug trafficking, software piracy, and money laundering.
With the full support of the United States, UNATCO was for the first time able to truly declare itself the "WORLD'S POLICEMAN.
" BOOK UNATCO MedDirectorate Nano-Augmentation Guidelines .
nano-augmentations, once "installed," irrevocably alter the physiological system they affect and in many cases cause all subsequent augmentations to be rejected; however, the exact number of augmentations each system can support varies.
The various interdependencies between these systems can be seen in the following table that details possible nano-augmentation combinations.
DATACUBE JANINE'S BOTS SPECS AND OVERVIEW MATSU-GRAVAS GV-4 "NIGHTINGALE" MEDICAL BOT The Matsu-Gravas GV-4 is the newest addition to the M-G line, their first foray into the medical bot category largely monopolized by Page Industries and Chiang subsidiary HealTech.
Unlike the competing Page or HealTech units, the M-G GV-4 benefits from a completely proprietary operating system -- developed at M-G's research campus in Prague -- that promises to revolutionize automated healing by combining a comprehensive medical and pharmaceutical database with M-G's already proven autonomous heuristic routines.
While actual field data is sketchy at this point of time, anecdotal evidence suggests that the GV-4 can heal wounds far beyond the capabilities of any other competing model, though it does require a substantial recharging period.
20892 Subject: bad nee Doctor Reys, well-come.
UNATCO is having a need of a good sergeon.
Which let me add, I have a big pain in my nee.
Sticking actuator?
I cant fix it no mater how much lubrikant.
Please inform when an appointment can be made available.
20892 Subject: Nano-Augmentation Principal/2C Briefing As a medical specialist, you will be required to repair and modify the systems of our nano-augmented agents.
This briefing is intended merely as an introduction to the technology.
The cells of every major tissue in the body of a nano-augmented agent are host to nanite-capsid "hybrids.
" These hybrids replicate in two stages: the viral stage, in which the host cell produces capsid proteins and packages them into hollowed viral particles, and the nanotech stage, in which the receiver- transmitter and CPU are duplicated and inserted into the protective viral coating.
New RNA sequences are transmitted by microwave and translated in to plasmid vectors, resulting in a wholly natural and organic process.
Additional augmentations can be added through the use of microscopic ROM modules -- shaped a little like flying saucers -- that diffuse through the blood and attach to the long spine of nanite CPUs.
These additional augmentations are software "upgrades" in the most literal sense of the word.
We hope this report gets you started; you will find a full technical design document attached.
Please read and thoroughly understand this information so that you will be better qualified to administer care to this most exciting new breed of augmented-human agent.
JAIME REYES Hey, JC.
They actually let you operate on people?
JAIME REYES Just fixed Gunther's knee, in fact.
A sticky actuator.
So far I feel more like a mechanic than a doctor.
JAIME REYES They actually let you point a gun at people?
I've got to leave for New York right away.
Could you send Manderley whatever it is he wants?
JAIME REYES No problem.
Listen, JC -- about your augmentations.
You know they're preparing to roll out the technology worldwide, right?
JAIME REYES Yeah, well, the design's pretty modular, which means you'll soon have access to upgrades from standard "augmentation canisters.
Have anything for me?
JAIME REYES Not yet.
But remember if you find one of these canisters that you need a medbot for installation.
JAIME REYES The canisters contain a colloid of ROM modules.
Some are generic upgrades; others require you to make permanent choices about how to configure one of your subsystems.
(JAIME REYES Have you met your partner yet -- Anna Navarre?
I think she and Gunther are upstairs in the break room.
JAIME REYES A real piece of work.
Maybe you should compare notes before the operation.
You never know -- she might go easier on you.
What can you tell me about the Infolink?
JAIME REYES Let's see.
microreceiver exostructure in the sulci, mechano-carbon threads on the axons.
for queuing, you know, packet routing.
Anything particularly interest you?
JAIME REYES The Infolink?
JAIME REYES This might sound a little funny, JC, but I'm not permitted to answer that question.
JAIME REYES Regarding your systems.
I AM your physician.
I was just curious.
JAIME REYES I wouldn't keep Manderley waiting if I were you.
His office is on Level Two.
You better head out.
I think there's a medkit in the storage closet.
Carter's out the door and around the corner.
He's got your stealth pistol.
You better head out.
I think there's a medkit in the storage closet.
Careful.
Years of training, and you'll still all thumbs.
You old kidder.
BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK: Dedication Nihil aliud scit necessitas quam vincere.
--Syrus ALEX You're getting warm.
Getting colder.
You're red hot.
Looks like you found me.
(You feel okay, JC?
You're acting strange.
You're breaking my concentration.
) Like leading a mouse to cheese.
ALEX Don't worry.
We shut it down when you go off-duty.
ALEX I'm Alex Jacobson, communications engineer.
ALEX Getting there.
You're certainly quicker on the up-take than your brother Paul ever was.
ALEX Don't worry.
I'll be watching your back.
It'll be interesting to see how the transmission sounds in Manhattan.
I bet I could jack you into an online jukebox.
We'll have to try that.
You feel okay, JC?
You're acting strange.
DATACUBE Change ghermann password to "zeitgeist.
" Next week I guess it'll be "schadenfreude.
" Strange guy.
NEWSPAPER !
=!
==!
=== MIDNIGHT SUN ===!
==!
=!
Gray Death: Look to the Sky NEW YORK -- No student of recent history can fail to miss the irony that the greatest enemy mankind has faced in the 21st century was not any despot or dictator, but the lowly microbe.
Millions upon millions have been killed by the pandemics of AIDS, resistant tuberculosis, and the Century Flu, and now we face our greatest threat yet: the "Gray Death," a plague of devastating efficiency that has surfaced in the last year.
But was this plague an accident of nature, or a design of science?
Dr.
Kenji Ishii of the New World Biomedical Health Center in New York thinks not.
"My analysis of this plague indicates that it is decidedly unnatural in origin, and in point of fact, may be extraterrestrial.
" He went on to speculate about those afflicted.
"Obviously, a disproportionate number of the indigent seem to be infected, a situation that makes perfect sense if you consider it prelude to an invasion.
No more effective way to disrupt the social, political, and military fabric of Earth has yet been devised.
" If this is so, then what are our leaders not telling us?
And how can we be prepared?
Only they know the answers.
76490 Subject: Whupass Hey man, get your occipital jack fixed yet?
You've got to check out the Strike4 demo (//GNET/Ego/Strike4): whole-motor control, total visual occlusion.
MAN, fireballs burn your face, walls hurt when you hit them, tactile-textures everywhere, volumetric humidity.
WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?
Don't give me that national security crap.
Jack in so I can WHUP YOUR ASS.
76490 Subject: re: Security Breach Thank you for keeping me informed of the recent hacker activity and your speedy response to same.
I'm glad our security efforts were up to snuff.
(AJacobson//UNATCO.
76490) wrote: >I managed to stop the guys (actually, it was >some French chick the CIA's been watching, >perhaps a Silhouette spy(?
)) trying to break into >the net, but I took the liberty of changing some >passwords, just in case.
Here are the new >ones: >anavarre - scryspc >ghermann - zeitgeist >jmanderley - knight_killer >jreed - redshoes >jreyes - amigo >scarter - antique >me - calvo >You should probably delete this as soon as >you're done reading, okay?
1131 Subject: re: skul-gun I have personally forwarded your request to Appropriations.
Upgrading our combat-readiness is an ongoing priority.
Speaking of which, you certainly made the best of a difficult situation yesterday.
We applaud your courage.
Thank you for living to work another day, Gunther.
We need more agents like you.
JM GHermann (UNATCO.
76513) wrote: >Might I sugest agin, a skul-gun for my head.
>Yesterday in Batery Park, some scum we all >know pushes smack for NSF gets jumpy and >draws.
I take 2 .
22's, 1 in flesh, 1 in augs, befor >I can get out that dam asalt gun.
>If I could kil just by thought, it would be beter.
Is >it my job to be a human target-practis >backstop?
His assigned cover name for the duration of his service will be "J.
C.
Denton" -- we thought it would be best to keep the cover names within the family since Paul has already received the Denton codename.
I have great faith in you both, and trust you will do your utmost to insure that he becomes a successful and productive member of this organization.
Until further notice, I'd like to receive weekly reports with your observations.
1131 Subject: dinosores See, what do I tell you?
Manderley wil be hapy to have the garbage truk take me back to Deutschland.
Now especally with the new nano-aug alredy ariving.
We are the old computers the Americans call "dinosores.
" See if I ever get a skul-gun at all.
Gunther SAM CARTER At ease, Agent Denton.
This is a great honor.
SAM CARTER I'm not a general anymore.
Just call me Carter.
SAM CARTER Enough of that, soldier.
We each have our troubles.
I lost my children, but you've had to grow up without your parents.
Which requires more courage?
I don't think it matters.
That's different.
SAM CARTER I said that's enough.
You have your own op and time is short.
How 'bout I issue your stealth pistol?
Thank you, sir.
I can't carry anything else right now.
) SAM CARTER So, let's see.
A stealth pistol, and.
What else you think you'll need?
SAM CARTER That's right: infiltrate and evade -- engage only on your own terms.
SAM CARTER A man who uses his head -- I like that.
SAM CARTER A man who means business -- nothing wrong with that.
SAM CARTER Now move out.
Manderley's waiting.
Is that allowed?
SAM CARTER Oh, Kaplan, right.
We've got some screwballs around here, but he's not the problem.
It's whoever's been breaking into the armory.
SAM CARTER Yes, sir, and a damn good one.
No time for chit-chat.
The NSF are in retreat.
You better get going.
That is no time to be messing around.
You better leave that assinine behavior right here, soldier.
It will get you killed.
A pistol is more than adequate.
Hell, I dispatched a whole platoon one time with a pocket knife.
NEWSPAPER Mass Grave in Brooklyn APR - New York Responding to an outbreak of Gray Death that quickly overwhelmed all city services, National Guard forces were placed under the command of local law enforcement today and mobilized to help with disposal of the recently deceased in Brooklyn.
However, the National Guard soon proved inadequate in containing the chaos and in many cases the dead were simply left lying in streets while the dying -- mostly homeless -- wandered the city until collapsing.
Traffic jams and looting remain widespread, and as fear of the disease continues to escalate, frequent riots have made any attempt at an organized clean-up impossible.
With the threat of secondary diseases looming, city officials have consulted with the CDC in Atlanta and ordered a mass grave to be dug in Gateway National Park.
JANICE REED They're waiting for you, Agent.
Go on in.
You better not keep them waiting.
MANDERLEY That will be JC's job.
The NSF have the Ambrosia in a warehouse protected by cameras and booby traps.
We want to power down the whole system.
MANDERLEY We're talking one illicit generating plant, protected by weak groups of NSF.
Knock out that plant, and Paul's team can walk right into the warehouse.
You'll have to deal with them first.
MANDERLEY And you be ready, Paul.
When the power drops, go in and go in hard.
MANDERLEY Go in like the U.
S.
Marshals.
We lose the vaccine, I'm sending your butt to the Mayor to explain why he and his three daughters won't get their pills this month.
Let's not waste any time, JC.
Get down to the dock.
A boat is waiting to take you and your partner Anna Navarre ashore.
MANDERLEY Yes, get moving.
Here's your op bonus for the great job you did in the Statue, plus 250 for rescuing Agent Hermann.
That's 1250.
We take care of our people around here.
MANDERLEY By the way, Denton, stay out of the ladies restroom.
That kind of activity embarasses the agency more than it does you.
You'll come to admire your partner.
She's one of our best.
Leave from where you arrived, Denton.
The boat dock.
Move it!
That's enough, Agent.
Move out, soldier.
BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK UNATCO and the Future As science progresses at an ever increasing rate, more and more advanced technology is finding its way into the hands of the common criminal, resulting in a deadly threat to LIFE and PROPERTY throughout the world.
While it is impractical to restrict the free-flow of information already present in the public sector, UNATCO is committed to insuring that this threat does not go unaddressed.
Even now, UNATCO research and development employs some of the most talented scientific minds in the world to develop proprietary technologies in absolute security for field use by our agents -- including such innovations as the XXXXXXX XXXXX and XXXXXX, or the lifesaving XXXXX.
Under NO circumstances should agents discuss ANY piece of equipment or technique currently employed by UNATCO.
Agents operating contrary to this directive will face immediate disciplinary action.
Within our laboratories lies not just the future of law enforcement, but a SAFE, SECURE future for all mankind.
[Document filtered per UNATCO Terror Monitoring Act 919-05 Sec.
IV] NEWSPAPER Bootcamp for Betty APR - Portland Madison High School junior Betty Souza will spend the semester at the Canyon City Bootcamp, say school officials.
The crime?
"We have verified that she told another student that she knows how to make a bomb," said Principal Martin Gordly.
What makes this case notable is that the parents have filed a lawsuit against the school district.
"Our daughter wears black," said father Brandon Souza in a prepared statement.
"She had an occipital jack and we let her use it to play games.
We allowed her to get a tattoo when she turned 16, but none of this makes her a criminal.
Betty Souza will not be alone in Canyon City.
Last year 15,234 young people served sentences in the state's FBI-run "good-behavior" camps, a legacy of the Northwest War.
JANICE REED Oh boy.
The moment of truth.
They're really excited to have you, JC.
Good luck.
BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK UNATCO and the Press Because UNATCO will often deal with situations that cannot easily be contained, agents may unfortunately need to interact with the press.
If you are not trained for such interaction, do not -- repeat, DO NOT -- speak with journalists, regardless of nationality.
They are skilled in misdirection and propaganda.
Refuse comment.
Remember: Security procedures are our first line of defence.
SECRETS are LIVES.
Always refer reporters at crime scenes to UNATCO information officers and fact management teams.
SCOTT Wish I was going with ya.
NEWSPAPER !
Prez Sells Out NEW YORK -- President Philip Riley Mead's executive order repaying the United States debt to the United Nations is viewed by many as a positive step towards global peace -- but others sense darker motives at work.
Some sources have privately commented that the order is nothing more than a tacit endorsement of a new world government and its private military, the United Nations Anti-Terrorist Coalition (UNATCO).
Few can forget Mead's impassioned declaration that the shattered Statue of Liberty would not be repaired but instead stand as a reminder that "terrorism must be eradicated if we are to be free.
" It was shortly thereafter that Liberty Island was selected as the location of UNATCO headquarters, their dubious charter highlighted by the mysterious and still largely unexplained circumstances behind the Statue bombing.
No doubt President Mead's words will be remembered, even as he sells out his country to the foreign powers that have sought to destroy it for nearly three centuries.
-- Joe Greene, Senior Staff Writer LLOYD Good luck out there.
Man, two Dentons in the field.
The NSF won't know what hit them.
KAPLAN Plenty more cleaning-house to do when we chase these sons-of-bitches into the city.
Tell me what you need.
TROOP Good luck, Agent.
COLLINS The boat's ready.
Good luck.
PILOT Let's head out.
NYC - BATTERY PARK ANNA NAVARRE All right, let's go.
The terrorists are in a fighting retreat; a few have barricaded themselves inside Castle Clinton.
ANNA NAVARRE Our orders are to locate a barrel of Ambrosia they are hiding inside -- I will give you a schematic of the barrel.
But first we will exterminate the NSF terrorists.
ANNA NAVARRE A precious opportunity we cannot neglect.
ANNA NAVARRE That is your brother's assignment.
You will take the subway to meet him in Hell's Kitchen, but first we should deal with Castle Clinton.
ANNA NAVARRE A secondary entrance would be useful, but I am aware of no such thing.
President Mead has declared a war emergency.
Shoot to kill.
You have your orders.
No bean-bag shells like during a training exercise; real bullets tonight.
The Ambrosia is somewhere inside the Castle.
We must annihilate the NSF so that this does not happen again.
I can hold the entrance while you look for another way in.
Our orders are to stay here until the Ambrosia is secure.
TROOP We've got you back, Agent.
They won't get far if they try to escape.
We've got them pinned down.
Be careful.
They've got assault guns.
We know the Ambrosia's in there somewhere.
I wonder why the rebels would back themselves into a corner like this.
JOSH I'm starving.
Do you have anything to eat?
Tell me what you know about the NSF.
JOSH They're gonna kill the top one percent and then split up the rich people's money with everybody.
JOSH Go to hell.
What is it, Mister?
I'm really hungry.
Tell me what you know about the NSF.
JOSH I knew it!
Someday the NSF is going to win, and I'm going to give them your description with your stupid shades, and they're going to kick your ass!
Leave me alone.
I don't need your help.
I hope you get stuck in the desert someday.
And that you starve to death.
JOSH It don't matter.
I just need something in my stomach so I can fall asleep.
Do you have a place to stay?
JOSH I sleep out on the dock where they unload the speedboats.
Is that how the NSF get their supplies?
JOSH I don't know.
They're always coming in and out of the tunnel behind the soda machine.
JOSH I spy on them from the crates.
The code is 9183.
JOSH Thanks for the snack, mister.
JOSH That was good.
The cleaner-nanites make my teeth slippery.
I wish everybody was as nice as you.
JOSH I could eat anything.
BUM Look at that.
Don't have nobody at the side entrance.
NSF could just walk away.
NYPD.
I call 'em the Flashlight Brigade.
All they ever do is come out here and scare the birds, then I go back to sleep.
They're scared.
Just look at 'em.
They ain't gonna budge a muscle.
BUM No, sir, forget about the NSF.
Most of those old forts have a "bolt hole.
" Those boys'll be long gone out a side tunnel by now.
You fellas might scare Jim and Jane Stay-at-Home, but that's an army out there, a praise-the-Lord yes an honest-to-God people's militia.
I seen lots of battles, blessed be our Lord, back in the Northwest War.
Didn't have uniforms back then, just a shotgun and all the shells you could carry.
The NSF sure has grown up, praise Heaven.
They got organization now.
Listen to me, young sir.
I can tell you: that's what lost it for us last time, what the government's always been good at and we haven't.
But it looks like the boys got some discipline this time around, and your men better take note.
That's right.
Stand up, wipe your noses, and take note.
You got yourselves a -- hail Jesus!
-- you got yourselves a rebellion!
Consider the consequences, young sir.
Praise Heaven!
No more hiding below ground.
'Bout time we had a battle face-to-face.
MAN (moans) Somebody kill me.
anybody.
I can't kill you.
MAN Please.
MAN It's true.
It's your whole body.
Every cell.
MAN I can't make it.
I just can't make it.
I bet it's germ-warfare.
The government's got a cure.
They just won't give it to the people.
I can't feel my fingers.
WOMAN (groan) (moans) Got five credits for someone who's got the Gray Death?
WOMAN God bless you.
Spare another five credits for someone who's got the Gray Death?
WOMAN God bless you.
I think I'm getting worse.
Why can't anybody help me?
(sigh) 2.
BUM Our country 'tis of Thee, sweet land of Liberty.
Of Thee I sing.
Land where my fathers died!
Land of the Pilgrim's pride!
My native country, thee.
Land of the noble free.
Thy name I love.
BUM Don't let me get in your way, officer.
I'm right here if you need me.
You guys are doing great.
About time the cops cleaned up this park.
ALEX Looks like these tunnels head toward Castle Clinton.
I can't find them on the map, though.
ALEX You're inside the kiosk of Castle Clinton.
The bulk of the NSF troops must have gone through here to get underground.
DATACUBE Commander Grimaldi: I've completed installation of the security measures: code for the primary lock is 666.
I'm heading out to help Commander Frase's team prepare for the counterstrike.
In the meanwhile, my best advice is to keep your head down.
It's going to get real messy, real fast.
-Decker DATACUBE Commander Grimaldi -- we liberated two canisters of this stuff along with the Ambrosia during the Liberty Island raid, but none of our people are quite sure what it is or what to do with it -- possibly a biological or chemical agent, but without the proper people and equipment there's no way to tell.
Lebedev suggested we keep one of the canisters and a barrel of Ambrosia here as a contingency; the rest was shipped out to the airfield an hour ago.
Killian ALEX Objective complete.
Agent Navarre will describe your next assignment and stay behind to protect the Ambrosia.
Look for her out front.
BILLY You a cop?
How does a little boy get mixed up with the NSF?
BILLY I just wanted to find some food, but they didn't have any -- and then they started shooting at the police.
Got some?
BILLY You're cool.
BILLY Hey, I bet I can help you.
BILLY The soldiers have secret tunnels.
They take boxes into the tunnel under the fort, but they never bring them back out.
BILLY Steel.
Big ones.
Maybe I'll check that out.
BILLY Thanks, mister.
I thought I was going to starve to death.
The terrorists didn't even care.
They thought I was lying.
BILLY Aw, man.
BILLY Aw, man.
ANNA NAVARRE You are not afraid to kill; I am pleased.
The last thing I would expect from the brother of Paul.
ANNA NAVARRE You are not a mech.
You do not know what it is like.
No, thanks.
ANNA NAVARRE It was my error to believe that UNATCO's superweapon would appreciate a chance to prove himself.
ANNA NAVARRE How dare I delay your search for glory.
The NSF in the subway station have taken hostages.
Free them, but you know our standing orders -- we do not make deals.
Use this EMP grenade to disable the electronic detonators of the booby traps.
Now we will see who is made of steel.
ANNA NAVARRE You just passed Lesson One.
Lesson Two is how we deal with the terrorists in the subway station.
ANNA NAVARRE The terrorists have wired the platform with explosives and put in hostages.
Get the hostages out if you can, but make sure the NSF learns that human shields will not work against UNATCO.
ANNA NAVARRE We are thinking the same thought.
I will equip you with two grenades.
They will disable any electronic detonators within a radius of twenty meters.
ANNA NAVARRE I cannot wait all night.
Take the hardware.
) ANNA NAVARRE Your brother Paul has gotten our troops into another mess.
Paul has his units scattered and pinned down by heavy resistance in Hell's Kitchen.
The NSF regrouped in Hell's Kitchen perhaps because it is close to where they have taken the Ambrosia.
You have your orders.
UNATCO TROOP Good work.
We'll take it from here.
Save a few terrorists for us next time.
You better check out that hostage situation in the subway.
I'd like to know where the rest of the shipment went.
UNATCO TROOP They've got hostages in the subway station.
We lost some of our men.
The NSF seems to be falling back.
Agent Navarre ordered us to secure this part of the park.
See if you can get to the hostages.
They've boobytrapped the subway platform.
Said they would kill the hostages and themselves, too.
There are a couple of ways into the place.
Thanks for the help.
ALEX The NSF terrorists in the subway have threatened to blow up the platform.
Watch for boobytraps.
BUM Oh no.
They've got us penned in.
What do I do?
HOSTAGE Who are you?
As soon as I open the train doors, I need you both to be ready to run on board.
HOSTAGE Okay!
Watch out!
They've got the place wired with explosives.
I'll stay right here.
Watch out behind you.
ALEX Good work.
The hostages will be all right.
Now take the train to Hell's Kitchen and report to your brother.
(Good work.
The hostages will be all right.
Now get back to Castle Clinton and help Agent Navarre locate the barrel of Ambrosia.
) 2.
ALEX I don't believe what I just saw.
Those were innocents; you can't go in and just shoot everywhere.
Take the subway to Hell's Kitchen, and talk to your brother.
BUM You saved my life!
They were going to blow the whole place up -- us -- them -- everything!
They're maniacs -- complete maniacs!
Funny, I thought the NSF was fighting for a good cause.
They're right that the government shouldn't intimidate people, but neither should they.
I guess they got what they deserved.
Thanks again.
I think I'll be okay.
HOSTAGE I guess so.
HOSTAGE They were pulling out.
Most of them got on the train and went up north.
Barrels?
HOSTAGE Not that I saw, but I heard them talking about a warehouse, how they needed "every precious second" to move some kind of shipment.
They just gave up half a dozen lives for a couple of minutes.
HOSTAGE I'll be okay.
Thanks.
I think that's all of them.
I'm not going anywhere until the shooting stops.
NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN SALLY Yeah?
SALLY How's what look?
Is it heavy?
SALLY The cops told me to take cover in the bar or come down here.
SALLY I don't know.
Is that it?
Thanks.
SALLY That's all I know.
I'm just gonna wait it out.
Maybe that guy on the steps knows what's going on.
BULLETINS Water Advisory Residents of Manhattan and Brooklyn should be aware that last week's chlorine spill in the Hudson River now appears to have washed ashore and is interfering with the operation of at least one water processing plant.
While the impact upon the city's utilities is currently unclear, water rationing rules may need to be instituted within the next week.
Under NO circumstances should any resident drink, bathe, or swim in contaminated water.
If you or someone you know comes in contact with contaminated water then go to the nearest available hospital or clinic.
Brooklyn Naval Yards Completes Sub Pen In a ceremony held earlier today, the venerable Brooklyn Naval Yards christened a new, state-of-the-art sub pen.
New York Senator Clark Ashton was in attendance, as was industrialist Bob Page whose subsidiaries handled many of the contracts for the construction of the new building.
"This is certainly a great day for New York," said Page in a brief speech to commemorate the occasion.
"New York is, in many ways, the symbolic center of America, an example not only to the rest of the country but the world.
As long as New York remains mindful of its past but dedicated towards realizing its future, this will never change.
This building is only a small -- but significant -- step in the continual renewal of the city, and Page Industries is glad to be a part of that.
" Battery Park Closed Until Further Notice Due to unidentified terrorist action, Battery Park will be closed to all unauthorized personnel until further notice.
Local police working in conjunction with UNATCO agents are currently in the process of dealing with the threat, and according to UNATCO head Joseph Manderley, "The situation is strictly minor, but any time the potential exists for civilian casualties we must proceed with caution.
" Be Safe: Be Suspicious Terrorism has become an unfortunate fact of life not only in New York but the country at large, a direct assault on our communities and our way of life that leaves citizens struggling to find answers to difficult questions, not the least of which is "What can I do to prevent such atrocities?
How can I help?
" Quite simply, terrorism is successful because terrorists are able to pass unnoticed and unremarked upon -- but they fail to count on the best intelligence network ever devised: the American people.
How can you tell who might be a terrorist?
Look for the following characteristics: * A stranger or foreigner.
* Argumentative, especially about politics or philosophy.
* Probing questions about your work, particularly high-tech.
* Spends a greater than average amount of time on the Net.
* Interests in chemistry, electronics, or computers.
* Large numbers of mail-order deliveries.
* Taking photographs of major landmarks.
And those are just a few.
If you're suspicious, then turn them in to your local law enforcement for a thorough background check.
Better safe than sorry.
You and your neighbors will sleep more securely knowing that you're watching each other's back.
I've got to get my team ready to raid the warehouse.
Your primary objective will be to locate and disable its power source, probably an industrial-sized generator in a large building.
Why'd you have to clear the street?
We could use your help if you get the chance.
Check the secret closet.
Remember?
The keypad's behind the painting.
Second floor, right?
Use minimal force this time.
You took a lot of lives on Liberty Island.
(Use reasonable force like you did on Liberty Island.
) I've got to assemble my team.
You better get moving.
I'm counting on you to find that generator.
Hold on while I make room.
) HOMELESS GUY This city is LIT UP, man!
Yeah.
They're setting fires on Wall Street; I heard it on the radio.
This dies down, I'm gonna take myself a nice spread on Park Avenue.
I've been waitin' for this.
SALLY Yeah?
Can you help me out?
SALLY I mighta heard something.
How much money you got?
Fifty credits?
SALLY Appreciate the business.
Yeah, I met this truck driver a while back.
He had a lot of cash.
I asked him where he got it, and he told me he'd just hauled some power cables to a warehouse near here.
SALLY Didn't seem like a big deal at the time.
You might try that mech chick who runs the Underworld Bar.
She grew up around here.
Thanks.
SALLY Hope you find the place.
Jordan's big into cleaning up this place.
She's real helpful with the cops.
The bar's down on the corner, near Smuggler's hideout.
A secret power station -- I wouldn't be surprised.
A lot of people in this part of town work for the NSF.
I bet that NSF has a secret base or something in the warehouse district.
SALLY All right.
Like I said: fifty credits.
I'll tell you what you want to know.
MUTTERING BUM They're shooting.
Why do they keep shooting?
Sometimes I hear things.
in my head.
It's not normal.
Majestic.
majestic.
When you stayed with Paul, did you meet Mr.
Renton and his daughter, Sandra?
We think at least one of them is still inside.
COP Talk to one of the guys in green.
UNATCO's running the show today.
We've been asked to direct pedestrians to the Underworld Bar.
You'll be safe there.
About time these thugs came out in the open.
This is a job for military units, not city police.
Stay clear of the fighting.
BUM DO something, man.
They're gonna kill him.
THUG Nothing.
I checked his pockets.
You don't live underground and not have one of Charlie's cards.
Make him take off his shoes.
BUM I just sleep down there.
They don't give you money unless you're on the Council.
THUG Take off your shoes.
Charlie has no reason to be stingy if he has a currency-encoder.
BUM They just hacked a few accounts.
They have some extra cash.
That's it.
THUG I'm not asking again.
BUM It's just a bunch of us.
We go down there to get out of the cold.
THUG All right.
We'll do it the hard way.
Back off, pretty boy.
(These proles, man.
They got no idea what’s going on.
) 1.
BUM He's dead.
My God, he's dead!
I can't believe it.
He never hurt nobody.
BUM Next manhole I see I'm going underground and I'm not coming up.
Credits?
They gonna burn this city down for a few credits?
Some people think the fighting's all a big game.
BUM Did you SEE that?
You mug people, great, you need dough, but you SHOW some RESPECT.
BUM Especially when it's your ALLY.
THEY came to us.
THEY wanted an underground base.
NSF?
BUM Yeah, the NSF gives guns to anybody who wants to fight.
A lot of people just take the guns and do what they want.
in the subways?
The sewers?
BUM They need to move some kind of secret equipment.
Our tunnels are like the crossroads.
BUM "Underworld.
" Just remember that word when you see Curly.
He lets people in.
Me, personally, I don't rob.
I think it's wrong.
I think Curly went underground, but remember that password.
You might need it someday.
'Appreciate the help.
The NSF are all right.
It's just some of the people that hang around 'em, you know?
HOBO Back off, man.
What'd I do?
I ain't bothering no one.
NEWSPAPER Court Upholds NY Grid Law New World Press - Washington, D. C.
In a landmark six to three decision yesterday, the U. S.
Supreme Court upheld the controversial "grid zoning" laws that have been the subject of a number suits since being instituted six years ago.
Originally passed by the New York legislature in 2046 in response to the Upper West Side bombing that killed 45 people and wounded over a 100, the grid zoning laws effectively allowed the police to wall off regions of Manhattan and its surrounding boroughs.
Foot traffic between these "zones" is prohibited, and travelling between zones is restricted to authorized subways or highways subject to police surveillance.
"A travesty," said Gil Treble, representing the ACLU as plaintiffs in the case.
"This law is nothing more than the legalization of social oppression on a grand scale.
" Supreme Court Justice Machen wrote in his favorable decision that "The unfortunate nature of American liberty is that freedom creates opportunity for terror.
It is with heavy heart that I must conclude in this case that the freedom of individual Americans must be balanced against the needs of a community to feel safe and secure.
" INTERCOMM Yes.
Password?
I'm a federal agent.
INTERCOMM (click) 2.
INTERCOMM .
too sick.
Come back later.
INTERCOMM The buzzer doesn't seem to be working.
NYC - UNDERWORLD TAVERN DAN Buy Ambrosia from a drug dealer?
(Pardon me, sir.

just letting off a little steam, I guess.
I’ll be glad when this thing is over.
) WOMAN We're talking about your wife, the Gray Death.
(Excuse us -- we're having a conversation.
I said leave us alone.
Get lost.
) DAN I don't know; if I gave it to her, and it was cut.
WOMAN JoJo's good for it.
People know him.
He'd be hanging from a streetlight if he was selling bad vaccine.
Hey, Shea.
Cape Cod.
Use a little vodka this time.
JORDAN Coming up.
DAN Guess I have to do something.
WOMAN You would never forgive yourself if -- DAN I know, I know.
WOMAN It's to be expected.
Ambrosia's a controlled substance.
Most people don't even think it exists.
WOMAN You oughta be thankful the dealers got their hands on it.
A week from now -- Listen to me; I say this for your own good: next week it might be too late.
DAN Yes?
Thought I heard you say Ambrosia.
DAN My wife has the plague.
WOMAN He already lost his daughter.
DAN So do I trust some street punk called JoJo to get me pharmaceuticals?
Trust him with my wife's life?
DAN JoJo probably just wants to sound like a player.
I shouldn't get my hopes up.
You just have to do what you think is right.
DAN I'm going to do it.
WOMAN I'm glad.
I hope she does better.
DAN Can't be any worse for her than morphine.
WOMAN Hey, Shea.
One for the road.
JORDAN Yes, ma'am.
DAN Go right ahead.
DAN You in real estate?
DAN Oh-oh-oh, of course.
You know, I tied in power at a place a few blocks south, a warehouse.
Strangest thing.
They wanted to conceal these gas-driven generators on the second floor.
Didn't give a hoot if their own people got asphyxiated.
DAN No way through the blockades now.
We went over some rooftops to get there; there was a lift -- the code was 3316, I think.
DAN I also worked on their hydraulic system.
If you ask me, I don't think one of those guys has seen a generator before in his life.
You're a good man, Agent.
Crummy part of town, isn't it?
Beer's my favorite financial instrument.
It's true; you can TASTE an economy going sour.
Hey, what is this stuff?
Heavy water?
JORDAN You don't have to drink it.
WOMAN I think he should do it.
His wife is very sick.
Hi, my name is Meg.
DAN You a cop?
We were just talking.
WOMAN Mind your own business.
JORDAN Hey, back off, mister.
Leave the customers alone.
WOMAN Yeah, back off.
DAN So.
the Stanley account is.
concluded?
WOMAN More strikes, this time in Baltimore and D. C. DAN Truckers. ?
WOMAN Yeah, the roadblocks, security.
I don't think we're going to see any investment in transport until the political situation cools off.
DAN Oh.
I thought we had Stanley in the bag.
I want you to tell me what you know about the stolen Ambrosia.
DAN You misheard, officer.
We were talking about work.
" DAN I said you heard wrong.
WOMAN Excuse us -- we're having a conversation.
I said leave us alone.
Get lost.
JORDAN What can I get you?
Heard of an old warehouse with an illegal power generator?
JORDAN Not exactly, but if you're looking for a warehouse, you should probably start in the warehouse district.
JORDAN A few blocks south, not a bad walk, but the riot police have blocked the roads because of the NSF.
JORDAN Well you may be out of luck.
Even though one of the old warehouses faces onto the park, I don't know how you'd get inside.
JORDAN Something to drink?
Everything in the bar, snacks too, just ten credits.
JORDAN Yeah.
Ex-UNATCO, what's it to you?
JORDAN Well, I was in an early program, okay?
I can still polish a glass.
Good luck with your "business.
" (That’s fine if the police have to ask some questions, but don’t terrorize my customers.
You supposed to drink when you’re on duty?
Yes, Agent?
) Shoot.
JORDAN There you go.
What'll it be?
JORDAN There you go.
The tap's out.
Only bottles.
JORDAN You better get rid of some gear if you want to carry anything else.
JOCK Hey, you look like the vigilante type.
What if I said where you could load up on military hardware?
JOCK That's valuable information.
You'll have to come up with some kind of payment.
How about liquor?
JOCK The bar's to my left.
What do you have for me?
1 JOCK That one's warm.
Get me something from the bartender.
2 JOCK I want one of Shea's ice-cold brown bullets.
You too cheap to buy?
3 JOCK What am I?
A bum?
You think I'm gonna drink anything you find lying around?
JOCK That'll do.
His name's Smuggler.
A real paranoid nut; wires himself in with boobytraps.
But he knows things; there's stuff in the sewers that only Smuggler knows about.
Maybe I'll pay him a visit.
JOCK Now I'll tell you something you can't hear from anybody but me.
JOCK Already know him?
Hey, how about I tell you something you can't hear from anybody else.
JOCK Area 51.
You heard of it, right?
JOCK I worked out there.
Most people think they've got aliens from another planet, but I didn't see any flying saucers.
You want to hear about it, I'll tell you -- for the price of a beer.
What do you have for me?
JOCK I appreciate it.
Yep, I know for a fact it's not just for government research.
I've seen all kinds of executives coming and going.
JOCK Billionaires.
Big executives.
I think the whole place has been taken over by a private corporation.
JOCK Something's going on underground.
I'm a pilot, which means I didn't get access to the main complex, but a lot of rock comes out of there; it's some kind of mine.
But what I don't understand is why they're always laying more fiber-optic cables.
What do you fly?
JOCK Copters.
You know what I think?
I think that's where the UN moved Echelon IV, back when they promised they were going to stop spying on people.
JOCK I bet they did it.
They want to centralize everything -- every computer on the planet.
JOCK This old bird's had enough.
Hell, I'm about to go on duty.
JOCK You're with UNATCO, right?
JOCK I'm the one that flies your brother Paul to Hong Kong.
He told me to watch out for you.
JOCK The black choppers are run by the NSA to support various classified operations.
The Pentagon uses them, the CIA.
They hired me because I don't ask any questions.
JOCK Like I said, I know how to keep a secret -- even between brothers.
JOCK Listen to your brother, JC.
Respect his experience.
Let's leave it at that.
Your brother's one of the bravest men I know.
I sure hope Paul knows what he's doing.
Check out the girl in the leather top.
One thing the Air Force never understood: I'm dependable.
No matter what, I'm dependable.
LADY It's still going on, innit?
They're shooting people.
right outside the bar!
I don't know what to do.
I've got to get home.
This man came around.
He sent everyone in here, but he never said what to do next.
I wonder if it's safe yet.
JANEY Hey, you with the troops?
I need help.
JANEY Actually, it's my friend.
Johnny took her into the alley west of here, across the street.
Who's Johnny?
JANEY I've got a bad feeling about this.
He was mad.
He gets crazy when he's mad.
I'll check it out.
JANEY He took me there once, and that's when I got cut.
I hope she's okay.
If Johnny touches her, I swear to God I'll kill him.
JOE GREENE Joe Greene, Midnight Sun.
Glad to know you.
What can you tell me about what's going on out there?
Regulations prevent me from talking to the press.
JOE GREENE Regulations, eh?
So you ARE part of the crackdown.
How about I ask you a few questions?
JOE GREENE Splendid.
I certainly would like to know what an international antiterrorist organization expects to find in a dive like this.
JOE GREENE Aha-a-a.
Playing the detective, are we?
I take it you've been assigned to eliminate certain weapons systems.
defenses, maybe?
Am I getting warm?
JOE GREENE Then let me ask YOU a question.
What do YOU think about the summary executions happening on the very streets of New York?
JOE GREENE Let me be more pointed.
How does it feel to be ordered to murder civilians just because they support the fastest-growing political movement in this nation's history?
JOE GREENE Rebellion, as the Declaration of Independence tells us, is not only our "right" but our "duty" when we have suffered "a long train of abuses and usurpations.
" This is gonna make a great story.
Keep me updated.
Don't worry.
I'll say "sources within UNATCO" if I quote you.
All of your assets prior to the unauthorized transactions have been transferred to account number 947761 with the PIN number 2867.
We suggest you change this PIN number as soon as you have had a chance to verify your new account.
Again, our most sincere apologies.
Rest assured that NYFF will insure that such intrusions do not happen again.
Sincerely, Bob Latham Vice President, Computer Security New York First Federal National Bank PIMP (coughs) (clears throat) (whistles) One day, man.
I'm not just gonna take it anymore.
These proles, man.
I got no idea what's going on.
Gotta move uptown, man.
Get outta here.
Those UN cops are everywhere these days.
Ha!
Cops just walked right by me.
Not feeling too good.
The Gray Death's just freakin' me out.
SANDRA You want something, talk to Johnny.
PIMP What I'm TELLIN' you, girl?
SANDRA You said I didn't have to.
Make Janey do it.
PIMP I already took the money, and when it's JoJo and it's somethin' he wants, you got to do it.
You and me both, baby.
We helpless.
SANDRA We were just gonna hang out today.
SANDRA Johnny.
PIMP If it's business, it's business.
If it's us two hangin' out, then we hang out.
Right now it's business.
SANDRA I want out, Johnny.
I didn't know it would get like this.
PIMP Put it this way.
You do it.
You want out it's like a gang; you get beat out.
Girl, don't make me tell you again.
SANDRA I'm sick, Johnny.
I really am.
I gotta lie down.
JOHNNY What you want?
PIMP Two hundred up front and I hook you up.
PIMP Right on, bro'.
You next.
PIMP I said I hook you up.
Sandra's got to go underground, but you wait topside at the Underground Bar, and I be there.
Maybe you like Janey.
PIMP Yeah, you a Janey man.
You just don't know it yet.
PIMP We ain't talkin' some rock-head Gray Death hoochie.
With me it's always satisfaction GUARANTEED.
PIMP You ain't no po-lice.
I OWN the po-lice.
PIMP Easy, bro', just havin' us a conversation.
PIMP Girl's got a head full of marbles.
I HAVE to yell or she'd don't hear he.
PIMP She schitzes on me it's my ass, man!
PIMP All right!
I'm goin'.
Jesus.
PIMP Just business, bro'.
Girl was schitzin' on me.
I got patience.
But THAT GIRL.
Though she was a princess.
Thought the world OWED her.
Everyone's gotta work.
You don't work, ain't no one got a use for you.
Girl was a PARASITE.
You got a problem?
Show's over.
You better make like Kurt.
SANDRA Thanks.
SANDRA I was tryna find the back way into Smuggler's.

SANDRA Hey, you shouldna took down Johnny.
Soon as JoJo finds out.
SANDRA Hey, you shouldna threatened Johnny.
Soon as JoJo finds out.
SANDRA Hey, you shouldna fought Johnny.
Soon as JoJo finds out.
SANDRA You can't touch JoJo.
He doesn't go out, and there's only two ways to the warehouse.
SANDRA You think you can sneak into Osgood's at the park, but in the first place it's locked.
(The park?
Where UNATCO has the NSF pinned down?
) SANDRA .
and if you go underground he's got laser tripwires, drone guns -- military- type stuff.
Plus there are guards on the roof.
I'll handle JoJo.
You stay out of the way until the NSF have pulled back.
SANDRA I can take care of myself.
Figured you'd be a big customer.
Weapons?
Drugs?
SANDRA High-priced weapons.
Yeah, you should talk to him.
His place is over near the subway.
You have to give the password "bloodshot" or he won't let you in.
Thanks already.
Now leave me alone.
NSF TERRORIST Two weeks training at a militia camp.
I ain’t ready for this.
TROOP We’ve got them surrounded.
The NSF were heading for the hotel, but we cut them off.
They got Jones.
We aren’t taking any prisoners.
Maybe you can get around behind them, scare them out so we can get a better shot.
There are more in the hotel.
They have hostages.
We can hold ’em.
It’s going well so far.
Good to have you with us.
You took out the guy that got Jones.
Serves him right, huh?
That takes care of that.
The way Paul was talking, we were afraid you were going to go easy on them.
You’re one of us, Denton.
Keep down.
We'll take it from here.
We'll handle this.
The NSF don’t usually dig in like this.
Thanks for the help.

just a few more.
We’ll secure this end of the street.
All clear.
I don't think we should hold back in a situation like this.
We took them out.
We have the situation under control, Agent.
We sent some of the civilians into the clinic.
Your brother spared a lot of lives by clearing the street.
We'll have to get the city out here to clean up the mess.
Bad shit goin' down.
NSF got the whole building.
Best thing, hide your piece and lay low.
That's what I'm doin'.
Cops stop you, bro', don't talk back.
NEWSPAPER Chinese Lunar Mine Operational APR - Beijing, China Chinese authorities today announced that their state of the art Zhou Enlai Lunar Mining Complex is operational and functioning at one hundred percent capacity.
"We are pleased to be making significant progress not just in pushing back the boundaries?
of exploration for all humanity, but in developing the lunar territories in a way that benefits the Chinese people and the global market," said Nghia Lam, Chinese Premier.
While the United States and Nigeria still dispute China's claims to the lucrative Palus Somnii and Mare Crisium regions, Chinese construction has proceeded apace while diplomatic negotiations continue.
"We feel we have some valid claim to those territories, certainly," said Robert Holden, Secretary of the Interior for the U. S.
"But we would prefer to find and equitable arrangement that would allow our countries to work together in developing man's first real home outside of our own planet.
" The first ore delivery from the factory will be launched by mass driver tomorrow and should arrive in Earth orbit by next week.
TROOP 1 Denton!
Hey, it's Denton!
TROOP 2 You want these?
TROOP 1 Give'im the grenades!
TROOP 2 Look, I know he's your brother, but.
TROOP 1 Your brother gave us these things!
Look at this, "irritation to all exposed mucuos membranes" -- what's that gonna do?
TROOP 2 Just tell Paul to give us bullets next time.
TROOP 1 Here's one: "Prolonged exposure can damage the bronchial pathways.
" Prolonged exposure?
It's like giving'em cigarettes or something.
TROOP 2 Look, do you want these things?
TROOP 2 Here you go, with my compliments.
Good luck.
(Can’t carry them?
Forget it.
I’ll throw ’em away myself.
) 2.
Those things save lives.
TROOP 1 Terrorist lives, you mean.
You're just like your brother.
If I had your abilities, people would be safe around here.
TROOP 1 "Effective crowd control"!
What's that supposed to mean?
Gonna be some really sniffly terrorists.
You don't see the NSF using tear gas!
TROOP 2 Sorry.
He's a little worked up.
You should talk to your brother about this.
Paul used to be fine.
I don't know what happened.
JANEY What about Johnny?
JANEY Serves him right.
About time.
JANEY Where's he at?
JANEY I hope he doesn't think I ratted him out.
JANEY Oh, JoJo.
He's nothing, man.
We used to go out.
His body mods?
Cosmetic.
Scars?
I saw him cut his face one time just so he'd look mean.
JANEY Well, if you ever want to get into the warehouse where he hides out, I know the code.
It's 3316.
You've been very helpful.
JANEY JoJo shouldn't stick us with guys like Johnny.
That ain't cool.
Sandra looks a little shaken up.
I hope she's all right.
I don't know why Sandra doesn't just stay with her dad.
He's okay.
At least she's got SOMEBODY.
SANDRA You're looking at it.
SANDRA So?
SANDRA He knows where I am.
SANDRA Nah, but I don't want him running my life like he runs that cheap hotel.
SANDRA He never got nowhere because he never took chances.
That ain't me.
I'm gonna do things my way.
Let's leave it at that.
SANDRA Yeah, let's leave it at that.
SANDRA Huh.
Figured you'd be a big customer.
He's got a basement place, over near the subway entrance.
You have to give the password "bloodshot" or he won't let you in.
Mind your own business.
I don't need you or anybody telling me what to do.
Somebody should take a wrecking ball to that scummy hotel.
NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN INTERCOMM Yes.
Password?
NYC - SMUGGLER'S LAIR 1.
ALEX Our files show that the Smuggler is whacked-out paranoid.
Watch for booby traps.
And the latest news: your brother's team hit some resistance, so they're going to be delayed while we bring in chopper support.
ALEX Watch it, JC.
Our agents report that this area is booby-trapped.
And the latest news: your brother's team hit some resistance, so they're going to be delayed a little while we bring in chopper support.
SMUGGLER What do you want?
Afraid of something?
SMUGGLER Just precautions.
SMUGGLER Government's been having some kind of crackdown all year.
People I know, they've been disappearing.
SMUGGLER Think it's a big joke?
Lift up a grate in the street.
They've got my friend Ford Schick in a secret lab next to the sewers.
In the sewers?
Maybe he was taken hostage by the NSF.
SMUGGLER These guys are pros, definitely government-funded.
Maybe I'll take a look, but I think you should have a little more regard for the United States government.
SMUGGLER If you're serious about going down there and finding Ford, I'll give you a deal of some hardware.
Also you'll need this.
It's the key that can open the sewer manholes.
SMUGGLER I have a scope that will fit most handguns and rifles for 2100 credits, a bioelectric cell for 800, and some Light Amplification Goggles for 3500.
SMUGGLER Deal.
If you come back, you can use the front door.
The password's "bloodshot.
" 3.
Maybe I'll try to locate your friend.
SMUGGLER They'll keep him alive as long as he's useful.
Not a minute more.
SMUGGLER Ford does the best bioscience in the Northeast.
SMUGGLER It's ironic.
Just before they got him, Ford told me he had proof that the CIA does experiments on street people.
1-2-3.
SMUGGLER See anything you like?
I'm not Bob Page, you know.
SMUGGLER Come back when you have the money.
SMUGGLER I would consider it.
SMUGGLER I could come down a bit.
) SMUGGLER I don’t have anything left to sell.
1230 Subject: Inquiry The Oracle says: We did as asked and checked with our sources, pulled up black project lists from deadspace Net ghosts, performed intrusion runs on Throne/6G systems, everything.
Called in all markers.
Best we can say after eight-variable cross check on all available info is your friend did some under-the-table work in youth: very deep, very wet.
Few specifics, but we were to divine that it involved the chlorine assisted delivery of weaponized particles.
We show 86.
73% likelihood that this work is contributing factor to his disappearance.
We can tell you this much as well -- was not taken by any known national or international security organization.
We cannot determine responsible party and this troubles us.
We consider our debt repaid.
No further communication between us will occur.
[[The Oracle would like to know the last joke you heard.
1230 Subject: Limites d'Affaire Nous trouvons vos limites acceptables.
Nous nous attendrons à ce que les éléments en question fournissent promptement -- avec déclencher des mécanismes - - à l'emplacement que nous avons discuté.
Nous avons créé un compte contenant la première moitié du paiement, compte le numéro 312446, l'autorisation 1351.
N'essayez pas en n'entrez pas en contact avec à nous l'adresse ci-dessus; elle ne fonctionerra pas.
Si vous exigez de nous contacter vous pouvez utiliser les moyens que nous avons déjà établis.
BOOK The Modern Terrorist's Handbook Section 7C.
Computer Virus Cultivation One tool (or weapon) not to be negklected in the arsenal of the modern terrorist is the use of computer viruses to cause discruption to major city services and infrastructure, or other targets of opportunity.
Current heuristical viral stalkers ar einfective against modern polymorphic "hothouse" engines availble from many sites on the UnderNet, and can be easily linked to IP-tunnellers for a cheap, effective denile of service attack -- or, with some programming skilz and icebreakers, a mutagenic crash 'n grab bird can be grown for the tretieval of speici info from the unfortunate victims.
The following pages will discuss some of the more typical viruses, such as the Bandersnatchv128, Ulysses Dilemma, and 109.
BOOK The Reluctant Dictators by Travis Crockett Introduction Organized at the end of the American Revolution on May 13, 1783, by General George Washington, the Order of the Cincinnati was ostensibly formed as a fraternity to recognize the accomplishments of those officers who had served with distinguishment during the Revolution.
However, the true purpose of the Order was the cultivation of a military force ready, willing, and able to accomplish a coup d'etat if the fledgling American democracy began to stumble.
Skeptical at the viability of the untried democratic system, Washington took counsel in the story of the Roman general Cincinnatus who was called from retirement to serve as Dictator for sixteen days in the defense of Rome, after which he returned home to his farm.
In the wake of the Revolution, the United States was vulnerable to any number of outside forces, and Washington felt that a strong, central authority had to be present that could assume control of the government if necessary -- and "temporarily" suspend the Constitution if required.
Washington resigned as President after only two terms in office, but remained President of the Order of the Cincinnati till his death.
The Order still exists to this day, a shadow organization of the wealthy and powerful that has been linked to any number of other organizations ranging from the Illuminati to the Trilateral Commission.
NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN CORPORAL What's your business here, Agent?
CORPORAL You better hold off.
The NSF retreated in there about half an hour ago, and they've taken hostages.
We're waiting for a specialist.
Just tell me where the hostages are being held.
CORPORAL No one's standing in your way, but you'll have to go in alone.
Our orders are to hold the perimiter.
We think the terrorists are on the second floor.
CORPORAL Agent.
Don't take any unnecessary risks.
Remember: no deals with terrorists.
Good luck, Agent.
DATACUBE Commander Frase: UNATCO has regrouped more quickly than expected and is beginning a cooridated assault on our position along with the local police.
They will certainly overrun our defenses eventually, but they must be delayed until the next phase of the mission can be completed.
Your men will be responsible for guarding the tunnels leading to the generation station.
Dig in and arm all available automatic defenses.
I don't need to tell you what's at stake.
Good luck.
Renton.
We have a situation with the NSF outside.
Renton.
Terrorists have taken cover inside the hotel.
GILBERT Ah.
Can't leave the desk unintended.
I have to order you to leave the building.
GILBERT Yes, of course.
I'll close up in a second.
I'll head out-- just a minute.
Hey, thanks for the concern!
Good to see you, Mr.
Denton!
Renton?
GILBERT Fine.
I think that's all of them.
You got the guys upstairs, right?
I think you’re gonna be okay.
How's you daughter?
Is she somewhere safe?
GILBERT I don't know -- she's been gone all week.
I try not to think about it.
I'll take a look around.
GILBERT Hey, if you see Sandra, tell her I don't care.
I don't care what she's been doing; she can come home, no questions, no speeches.
GILBERT Sandra's pretty headstrong sometimes.
I offered her a job that the desk.
You can imagine what she said to that.
If the economy hadn't bottomed out, she might have got along all right, but at 18.
She just doesn't stand much of a chance.
If you see her.
Well, never mind.
I just hope she's all right.
Thanks for looking out for her.
GILBERT Fine.
Be careful, though.
They've got more hostages up on the second floor.
By the way, I saw your daughter down the street.
She didn't look so good.
GILBERT Sandra?
Was she coming back to the hotel?
You better talk to her.
GILBERT No, no more talking.
If you see her, tell her I don't care what she's been doing; she can come home, no questions, no speeches.
GILBERT There are two of those guys.
I knew they were NSF from the body-armor.
They're scared.
That's why they took hostages.
Maybe we should just keep out of the way until this blows over.
I'm not getting involved.
(I should probably go find her.
Oh, I don't know.
Maybe she'll come in from the fighting.
Why'd she have to do this to me?
Thanks for looking out for her.
They think they're invincible at that age.
) DATACUBE Commander Frase, we're pinned down in Hell's Kitchen and I'm not sure what to do.
they're slaughtering us in the streets wherever they find us -- this one mech aug, he's like a giant walking tank, I saw someone pour a clip into him and it didn't even phase him.
I've lost contact with Alpha and Delta teams, Yusuri and Thompkins are dead.
I don't know what to do.
We've holed up in a hotel.
It's so different than training.
Please tell me what we should do.
If we leave, they'll kill us all.
If we stay, we're dead.
I've had to take hostages -- I know we were supposed to minimize civilian casualties, but I didn't have a choice.
What can we BOOK CIA Factbook 2050: Hong Kong Economic Overview: In the decades since Hong Kong has been returned to Chinese control it has seen its economy thrive under the newly resurgent authority of the Chinese central government.
Led by a thriving technological market in human augmentation technology, the real GDP has peaked every year since 2041 with all forecasting models predicting that this trend will continue well into the next decade if not beyond.
However, the statistics do not present an entirely accurate depiction of the state of the Hong Kong economy as they fail to depict the flourishing gray and black market that operates with at least the tacit approval of the Beijing regime.
While political oppression continues to present a major and ongoing problem to those living under Chinese rule, entrepreneurism is alive and well in the form of organized crime -- as has always been the case, anything and everything can be had for a price in Hong Kong.
Many of these criminal organizations can trace their lineage directly to the Triads that have existed for thousands of years throughout China and Southeast Asia.
DATACUBE Quick note, if you need any help with.
work, check the painting on the wall and count back from 4.
Gotta run.
-P BOOK Jacob's Shadow by Andrew Hammond Chapter 12 "Lot a people say this city looks like Hell," Allie said.
She took a long drag from her cigarette.
The glowing tip burned like a hole in the darkness.
"Most people never been to Hell," Jacob said.
She looked at him and he could hear the smile in her voice.
"And I suppose you have?
" Jacob said nothing, then stood and walked to the bed.
Allie let out a small noise and shrank back against the pillows as if she'd claw her way into them if she could.
He leaned down close to her ear.
"You like to play games," he whispered.
"And that's fine.
But you don't want to be playing games with me, because I'm the one honest man in this city.
You should know that, since we were married.
" BOOK Vishnu's Fall A Brief History of the Indian Crisis .
after the bombing, Indian officials issued a series of stern warnings to Pakistan that were rebuffed with denials of responsibility and dire threats that any attempt to use the bombings as a pretext for military action would be met with force in kind.
"Like two kids shoving each other on the playground," said historian Alistair Brooks.
"You never expect them to come to blows.
" That was before Pakistan began the trials of the "Calcutta 16" and both nations descended into a maelstrom of political upheaval that would eventually culminate in the exchange of nuclear warheads.
DATACUBE Hey JC, didn't have a chance to get you your own Net account so feel free to use mine in the meantime.
Login is "pdenton" and password is "chameleon".
Make yourself at home and I'll see you soon.
4346 Subject: Miss You I left a message on your machine but wanted to follow up.
With both of us traveling it's hard to get together, isn't it?
I miss you so much.
I'll make it up to you when I get back.
Oh, wait, your brother's staying with you, isn't he?
Well, just wait until you're alone.
We'll work things out.
Promise.
Kisses.
//NYCNET.
Hello Friend, Has life become too impersonal, too tedious, too painful for you?
Then now is the time to exert control, to make that decision which is ultimately the only real choice we ever have: the decision to die.
Some may describe this as an act of selfishness, but with the dwindling reserves of natural resources throughout the world you're actually contributing to the well-being of all those around you.
A recent bill passed by the United States Congress even authorizes a one-time payment of c10,000 to your chosen benefactor upon passing away.
So do yourself, your family, and your friends a favor and visit any one of the KVORK, Inc.
clinics in a neighborhood near you.
We'll help you make a difference -- quickly and quietly.
Sincerely, Derek Schmitt Director of Development, KVORK, Inc.
4346 Subject: Settled in yet?
Hey JC, Thought I'd help you unload your boxes, but I'm tied down trying to get one of the medical analyzers working.
Damn thing nearly lasered off one of my fingers!
Catch you later for a beer maybe?
786658 on Wed, 14:26:35 -0600 Unable to deliver message due to a communications failure MPSEXCH:IMS: New York Net: BORONTYPE:ADA 0 (000C05A6) Unknown Recipient Message as follows: >I'm definitely worried about the test results; >there are some implications there that I'm >afraid to pursue too much further.
I'll talk to >Tracer.
Proceed with caution.
4346 Subject: Account Verification Mr.
Denton: We've received your order for "Blue Harvest" and "See You Next Wednesday.
" At your earliest possible convenience, please remit c110 at which point they will be shipped immediately.
Thanks for your business, Marcy Plaigrond Vibrant Videos, Inc.
HOSTAGE Help!
Oh my God!
Thanks.

trying to catch my breath.
You saved my life!
HOSTAGE Watch out.
They've got guns.
You better get out of here.
They'll kill me if I try to leave.
Thanks for taking care of those guys.
You from the police?
HOSTAGE Yeah?
Well, you might be interested.
I heard them talking.
They said something about how they had just put in a generator in a warehouse a few streets south of here.
HOSTAGE No, but they were talking about their security setup.
HOSTAGE It sounded like there was underground access; they're using the word "righteous" as some kind of password.
Thanks.
HOSTAGE Thought I was a goner.
You just about saved my life.
I'm gonna wait here until things settle down.
We're excited about your business and the trust you've shown by placing your valuable assets in our care.
NYFF has one of the most secure banking infostructures in the United States, an impregnable vault that protects you 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
A complete list of our security protocols and procedures is always available for your perusal at NYFF//NYNET.
88, and we welcome any questions or comments you might have.
At NYFF, we're not just protecting you for today, but also against tomorrow.
Your new account number is 543654 and the PIN number is 5544.
For your protection, we recommend that you do not share this information with anyone and wipe this datacube after committing it to memory.
And.
welcome to NYFF.
NEWSPAPER HAVE YOU BEEN SAVED?
"I AM HE THAT LIVETH AND WAS DEAD; AND, BEHOLD, I AM ALIVE FOR EVERMORE, AMEN.
" Join the NetChurch of God and know that your immortal soul will truly be saved - - backed-up on a datacube and stored in our secure, hardened crypt until the day of Rapture.
Don't trust your soul to other religions that promise similar services based on vague, ambiguous, and unverifiable promises of forgiveness and acceptance.
"THAT WHOSOEVER BELIEVETH IN HIM SHOULD NOT PERISH BUT HAVE ETERNAL LIFE.
" The exact location of our crypts is a closely-guarded secret, but rest easy knowing that they're protected by miles of rock somewhere beneath the Appalachian Mountains.
Even in the event of a catastrophe (Biblical or otherwise), an auxiliary nuclear generator will insure that your soul's checksum is verified daily for millenia to come, while surface sensors constantly monitor for the Last Days when the crypts will be opened and all souls will be free to ascend to heaven.
NetChurch of God @ God:999.
7 NEWSPAPER Bellevue Reports Increase in Admittance New World Press - New York Bellevue Hospital has reported a 50% increase in the number of patients admitted over the last three months compared to this same period last year.
"A disturbing trend," said Dr.
James Cabell, "and one that's stressing our personnel to the limits.
Many of those admitted are homeless that the police can't or won't deal with -- some of them afflicted with the Gray Death.
We simply don't have the facilities to deal with those cases, and most of the hospitals refuse to accept them.
" Many have linked the outbreak of mental illness to the recent rise in recreational drug use, in particular the new designer drug "zyme.
" Speaking on condition of anonymity, one public official said that "Zyme has simply become a threat to the public welfare .


there have already been discussions with Washington on a zero-tolerance solution.
" Others have suggested chemical contamination could be the culprit, sighting the recent chlorine spill that has rendered the East River almost lifeless.
GILBERT I think that's all of them.
You got the guys upstairs?
You can have your hotel back.
GILBERT The hotel, good.
Now we just have to kick these punks out of Manhattan.
The NSF won't have New York for long.
I took care of the situation.
TROOP What about the hostages?
You guys can relax.
TROOP Well, I'm glad they made it.
We'll take it from here.
Good work, Agent.
But I played by the book: no deal with terrorists.
TROOP At least it’s over.
NYC - FREE CLINIC LADY I.
I heard a lot of shooting outside.
They told me to come in here.
All these people, they're sick.
They've got the plague, don't they?
I'm staying as far as I can.
I don't wanna get sick.
I think the cops forgot about us.
MAN The riot cops are running scared.
BUM Reminds me of Washington.
I was there when the NSF overran Squalnomie, back when they were called the Northwest Secessionist Forces.
MAN Were you at Squalnomie?
BUM Yeah.
It was night, they came in with thermoptic camo and we never picked 'em up on any of the sensors.
What a goddamned mess.
MAN I didn't know.
BUM Had a hard time sleeping after that.
Didn't do real good on the psych evals either.
Got drummed out in short order.
MAN The Army probably didn't want to have any reminders hanging around.
BUM Yeah, and now look what they got: NSF in downtown Manhattan.
Same guys that nearly whupped us in the Northwest.
Bet the brass remembers Squalnomie now.
Christ.
You see the guy begging for a cure?
MAN Yeah.
What about him?
BUM It won't help.
There is no cure.
MAN How do you know?
BUM They show you stuff in the military.
You wanna know the real battlefield, it's microscopic.
We can't even see it.
Lucky for me, I got immunizations, but that guy.
Well, once you're infected, you're infected.
MAN And what about me?
BUM I don't know.
you got lucky.
Not a bad thing to be.
MAN I wish to hell they'd give us the all-clear.
BUM You making a play today?
MAN Nah, scavenged some copper wiring, wanted to get back and try it out on the sculpture.
BUM Christ, you and the sculptures.
What's this one called?
MAN "The Man Who Was Thursday.
" BUM Makes as much sense as the last one.
What was it called?
"Napoleon" something or other?
MAN "Napoleon of Notting Hill.
" BUM Doesn't seem much use for sculpture today.
MAN There's always tomorrow.
Hey there.
I'm Rafael, this here's Jake.
BUM Hey!
Sorry, I ain't got nothing for you.
What?
Just call me when the shooting's over.
Check with one of the docs, okay?
MAN Sorry?
You wanted something?
Look, I don't know any more than you do, friend.
RECEPTIONIST Welcome to Tenderloin Clinic.
Please proceed to the examining room.
We accept all forms of digital cash.
Please have your card ready.
I am not permitted to give medical advice myself.
Be prepared to give a description of your problem in three sentences or less.
You will have to consult one of the doctors.
As you can see, we're very busy.
Take a seat and be patient.
3908 Subject: Apologies Alice, sorry about the way things have been lately.
I've been through tough times before, and they come on like storms -- when you're in the middle of one you don't think the sunlight will break through again.
There were some stretches in Texas when the fighting got so bad that it seemed like there was nothing but wounded people wherever I went, that was all I saw, just wounds to be bandaged.
This is a hard stretch but we'll pull through all right, and we'll help a lot of people who wouldn't be helped otherwise.
I've got a lot of faith in you and the rest of the staff.
We'll make do.
Allred FEMALE It's all ice cream and lollipops, that's what the nice man on TV said.
When the weather changes, we'll be lost and no one will know who anyone else is anymore.
By the pricking of my.
my.
finger, something wicked.
something wicked is to be known.
Not me.
No, I didn't have anything to do with it.
How about the automated care plan?
Only 2000 credits.
Medkits are 300, but if you want augmentation work you need the bots.
(On second thought, hold on.
I can't carry anything else now.
Please read the instructions before before giving aid.
The medical bots will handle your case from now on.
(Might I provide a medkit for 300?
) 3.
(We’ve got automated care for 2000 and medkits for 300.
) BUM Who will help the widow's son?
BUM Oh. sorry, I thought you were someone else.
The NSF are playing right into our hands.
I don't hear much about it, but I know the signs.
There's going to be an announcement soon.
We just have to give D. C. a little push.
I like to keep people guessing.
I always beat around the bush.
No way I would break the Oath.
NURSE 1 If you think you have Gray Death, please pick up an information packet.
Plague victims can have their medication mailed to their homes at no additional cost.
See one of the doctors to purchase treatment.
We encourage everyone to consider the automated care plan.
Medbots are available 24 hours.
Please understand that the free clinic must charge for certain services to cover basic expenses.
We are doing everything we can regarding the epidemic.
NURSE 2 One of the doctors can help you.
You must pay the doctors in cash before treatment can begin.
Plague tests are free.
Please do not disturb the other patients.
I have other patients to attend to.
WOMAN Not now.
Please.
Leave me alone.
Wait your turn.
They said they’d call my name.
The medbots could give me a shot in two seconds, but the doctors keep them locked up.
Someone’s getting rich off the Gray Death, that’s for sure.
You doing all right?
BUM Yeah.
They told me to come in here.
Is that okay?
Just making sure everyone's safe.
BUM Hey, while you're at it, you oughta do something about the NSF.
Perfectly good shelter.
BUM Kicked us outa the old Osgood place.
A bunch of us camping in the tunnels.
Talk about rights, but when they want something, they take it.
You take care of yourself.
BUM I'm not the only one they threw out.
Think they're some kind of freedom fighters.
Justice will be served.
I filed a formal complaint, but the city ignored it.
BUM Got a few credits?
BUM Nah.
Cops ran us off the streets.
Usually I go into the water tunnels in the warehouse district, but somebody boarded up the window.
BUM Actually, I like to stay on the roof of this big apartment building.
Nice view, if it's not too cold.
There's a freight elevator at the end of the tunnel.
BUM It's a basement window in the park south of the hotel.
One thing about the warehouse district: you've got to know which buildings are safe.
Some have armed guards.
I kind of like it better in here.
Doctors don't seem to mind.
If the cops declare martial law, maybe we can stay.
PERSON I want SATISFACTION!
(What’s your problem, man!
I’m gonna stand my ground.
No one tells me what to do.
It's time for you to go.
PERSON This is supposed to be a free clinic.
Bet you'd do something if I had more money.
PERSON Rich people don't get Gray Death.
PERSON Like Mr.
Billionaire Bob Page.
HE don't have it.
The President don't have it.
I never seen a movie star who's got it.
YOU don't have it!
Wait your turn.
By helping you, this gentleman risks his own health.
PERSON But he won't give me any medicine.
When there's a cure, the city will underwrite the cost.
The virus threatens everyone.
PERSON I don't believe you.
PERSON You BETTER not.
They say the plague came from monkeys, but that's not true.
It was the Army.
It was the scientists.
You don't see SCIENTISTS getting sick.
Rich people like Bob Page, who own all the technology -- THEY don't get sick.
The ones with the plague can be so stubborn sometimes.
You can have the automated care plan for 1200 -- that's at a 40 percent discount -- or a medkit for 180.
(My friend, the diplomat.
You can have the automated care plan for 1200 -- that's at a 40 percent discount -- or a medkit for 180.
) 2.
Don't make me use force.
PERSON This is MY doctor.
We're discussing MY problems.
Now move out.
We've done all we can.
PERSON I'm staying RIGHT HERE until I get SATISFACTION.
I'm gonna stand here 'til I feel better.
Euthanasia is one sure way to relieve suffering.
PERSON That Chinese herbal nonsense is for twinks.
I want REAL MEDICINE.
I ain't budging.
BUM Vectors.
The vectors are all wrong.
I was in the biochem department at the college.
I know what I'm talking about!
It's not a class disease, but just poor people.
it's HYGIENE!
That's where it starts.
I don't think it's contagious at all.
I think terrorists put the Gray Death in the water.
NEWSPAPER * = * = * = * GRAYVE TIMES * = * = * = * DROWN THE CEREMONY OF INNOCENCE PARTY IN THE BLOOD-DIMMED TIDE LOSE ALL CONVICTION FEATURING: Oblivion Pretty & Twisted Tyger Tyger DJ VLIW The Gibson Cowboys AND Brewer's Phrase March.
17 [] 100.
Credits [] Location//UnderNet.
003 No.
Guns.
No.
Knives.
No.
Morals.
No.
Thing.
No.
Where.
No.
Cops Yes.
Zyme.
Yes.
Sex.
Yes.
Dance.
Yes.
117 Subject: Weekly Report (saved) Thomas, Another week, another report.
The triage situation here is getting tight -- so many people with the Gray Death, and we simply can't help them.
At best, we give them fluids and attempt to keep them hydrated until they crash-out, but that's just taking up space we could use for someone treatable.
A lot of them have nowhere to go, no.
social support, and they're creating problems in the clinic -- security is virtually non-existant and a few times I've had to tranq someone and drag them back out onto the street.
Secondary diseases on the rise: lots of tetanus, gangrene, resistant infections, advanced flu, that sort of thing.
I've attached a detailed spreadsheet with a break down and supply req.
That's another thing: we missed last week's supply shipment, and we're getting low on Christ, I think they're shooting outside.
I've got to go.
Do what you can and let me know what to expect.
3908 Subject: RE: Apologies >This is a hard stretch but we'll pull through all >right, and we'll help a lot of people who >wouldn't be helped otherwise.
I've got a lot of >faith in you and the rest of the staff.
We'll make >do.
And we've got faith in you -- there aren't really any apologies needed.
None of us would be here if we didn't believe in what we're doing.
Don't worry so much about us, and remember to take care of yourself, Alice NYC - NEW YORK SEWERS ALEX These tunnels aren't on the New York City sewer maps -- weird.
I have no information on what you might be getting into.
This seems worth following up.
This area is an old water treatment facility.
I wonder what all of these paramilitary types are doing down there, but considering what the Smuggler said, I would imagine this is where they are holding his friend, Ford Schick.
Maxwell Hammer OBJECTIVE: Covert surveillance of warehouse.
DETAILS: This mission is authorized at a level of Throne/6G.
You will not interface with local authorities, UNATCO, or other government agencies.
You are to act with prejudice against any threat to mission objectives.
NOTES: The entry code is 2167.
Steward,  Chemical Insertion As requested, access codes have been changed.
Your new access code is: Login: jsteward Password: JS1357 Be sure to change the password after you log on!
Steward, MJ12 Chemical Insertion Our security grid is now online and active.
We will perform a thorough system test every 12 hours to insure integrity in expectation of the shipment from Hong Kong.
If you would like to monitor our status, you can access the grid with the login "MJ12" and password "coupdetat".
88732 Subject: The Chemist Your concern about his behavior is unwarranted.
However, once the initial trial is completed, you may eliminate him at your own discretion.
Please note this on your calendars.
Employees on duty or otherwise unavailable will receive a bonus as compensation instead.
See you there, Harleen Quinzell Human Resources Director - Operations Central Harleen//UpNet.
453423 "A frown is just a smile turned upside down.
88732 Subject: System Hacking We've had several attempts to hack into the main Daedalus system, mostly amateur tunneling?
stunts that don't require a prejudicial response; however, in keeping with standard protocols, all Level 1 lock system codes have been changed.
The new code is 2167.
This will work within the complex, but isn't valid for exterior access (those systems are on a separate grid, as is the armory).
Pass this code to those with the proper clearances.
Archie Reynmann Central Security "Never blame malice for what can adequately be blamed on stupidity" -- R.
88732 Subject: Delivery The main shipment will be arriving shortly, so insure that all chlorine delivery tests are completed.
Your recommendation of the water treatment facilities for insertion has also been approved; your studies of vector diffusion and initial casualty counts were persuasive.
BOOK Chlorine and Water Treatment: Report for the New York City Council, 2053 .
on the other hand, opponents claim chlorine compounds can cause cancer, infertility, or birth defects.
However, recent research indicates that the increased risk of cancer from chlorinated water is minimal or nonexistent.
For example, a 2034 toxicological study found no carcinogenic effects at chlorine concentrations a thousand times higher than the Environmental Protection Agency revised Kyoto standards.
And the International Agency for Research on Cancer concluded population studies on cancer rates were too flawed to draw any conclusions.
Water chlorination is just one target for some activists; they advocate eliminating some or all of the 15,000 chlorine compounds now in use.
This would include more plastics, almost 85 percent of pharmaceuticals, and 96 percent of crop-protection chemicals.
Yet most of the chlorine in the world occurs naturally.
The annual global emission of some 1,500 naturally occurring chlorinated organic chemicals totals five million tons, compared to human emissions of chlorine compounds of only 26,000 tons.
BOOK Nanotechnology for Stupid People(tm) Feel like a moron because folks sling around words like "Universal Constructor," "gray goo," "mecanocarbons," and "Bucky tubes"?
Well, no longer!
"Nanotechnology for Stupid People(tm)" will guide you through the small, small word of tiny machines.
Why is this important?
Why should you care?
Imagine a million microscopic robots no bigger than a red blood cell constantly scouring your arteries for plaque and cholesterol.
imagine a supercomputer the size of your thumbnail that can record everything you see and hear.
imagine buildings that assemble themselves overnight -- well imagine no longer!
The future is here (or will be soon, and it's made of little atoms -- that's right, atoms, the building blocks of all matter in the universe.
Nanotechnology simply pushes the little building blocks around to make new, interesting, exciting things.
Even now, scientists worldwide are making huge strides in perfecting the Universal Constructor that will make a nanotechnological future possible, but already the benefits are being reaped from their research.
You'll learn the history, the inside scoop, the buzz words, and what the future holds - - all inside "Nanotechnology for Stupid people(tm)"!
Check out our other books including the bestselling "Pandemics for Stupid People" and "Cooking Dog for Stupid People.
" 1.
SCHICK Who are you?
Who's holding you here?
I don't recognize the uniforms of the soldiers.
SCHICK I don't know.
They're private security for a biotech company or something.
They have me doing antibody work.
SCHICK They're doing experiments on people.
They don't want anybody finding out.
SCHICK Tell me when the coast is clear.
Let's get out of here.
I'll protect you.
SCHICK Here I go!
They had me working on immunoglobin encodings.
The soldiers kidnap homeless people and inject them with Gray Death.
Which way?
I was supposed to genetically alter those poor people so that they could tolerate the virus.
Every time I got the sequence wrong, more people died.
The soldiers seemed less interested in curing the plague than in successfully integrating it into a human host.
I can make it from here.
Thanks.
If you see Smuggler, tell him I'm all right.
I could eliminate the immune response by removing all sequences that code for H type epsilon, but that's like driving a nail with a wrecking ball.
I knew that patients without epsilon chains would die, but it was the only way to narrow down the problem.
I had no choice.
One of the guys knew enough immunology that I couldn't fake it.
SCHICK Don’t kill me!
What’s this facility for?
SCHICK They kidnapped me.
The antibodies.
I was ordered to knock out certain sequences.
I don’t recognize the uniforms of the soldiers.
SCHICK I think the troops are security for some sort of biotech company.
I don’t have anything to do with it.
I said I wouldn’t experiment on people, but they just do the transfusions themselves.
SCHICK Hey, can you get me out of here?
I’m friends with Smuggler.
He’d probably give you a reward.
SCHICK Tell me when the coast is clear.
Let’s get out of here!
I’ll protect you.
SCHICK Here I go!
I can make it from here.
Thanks.
If you see Smuggler, tell him I'm all right.
They had me working on immunoglobin encodings.
The soldiers kidnap homeless people and inject them with Gray Death.
Which way?
I was supposed to genetically alter those poor people so that they could tolerate the virus.
Every time I got the sequence wrong, more people died.
The soldiers seemed less interested in curing the plague than in successfully integrating it into a human host.
I could eliminate the immune response by removing all sequences that code for H type epsilon, but that's like driving a nail with a wrecking ball.
I knew that patients without epsilon chains would die, but it was the only way to narrow down the problem.
I had no choice.
One of the guys knew enough immunology that I couldn't fake it.
NYC - SMUGGLER'S LAIR 1.
SMUGGLER Ford?
Is he all right?
You were right about those troops.
Definitely not NSF.
SMUGGLER They're the CIA.
They capture people and use them for medical experiments.
You said you'd make it worth my while.

SMUGGLER What do you want?
Afraid of something?
SMUGGLER Just precautions.
SMUGGLER Ford?
He’s alive?
Who were those troops?
They didn’t look like NSF.
SMUGGLER They must be CIA, or maybe Freemasons.
Is that why they call you Smuggler?
SMUGGLER You need something?
SMUGGLER What do you want?
Afraid of something?
SMUGGLER Just precautions.
SMUGGLER Government's been having some kind of crackdown all year.
People I know, they've been disappearing.
SMUGGLER Think it's a big joke?
Lift up a grate in the street.
They've got my friend Ford Schick in a secret lab next to the sewers.
Yeah, I found your friend.
They had him doing research.
SMUGGLER Ford?
Is he all right?
SMUGGLER Dead?
Ford’s dead?
I wish I had better news.
SMUGGLER Go away.
I don’t feel like making deals.
) SMUGGLER Since you helped Ford, I'll cut you a deal.
I'll give you a scope that will fit most handguns and rifles for 700 credits, a bioelectric cell for 250, or some Light Amplification Goggles for 1125.
Sure.
1-2-3.
1 SMUGGLER Deal.
SMUGGLER Hey, and thanks again for finding Ford.
SMUGGLER I don't have anything left to sell.
SMUGGLER Well, you know where to find me.
Thanks again for finding Ford.
NYC - WAREHOUSE DISTRICT ALEX Watch for LAM's.
I'm picking up sonic transducer activity.
I'm sending you a satellite image that should help you plan your approach.
Heads up, JC.
We've got NSF troops on the rooftops.
NEWSPAPER !
=!
==!
=== MIDNIGHT SUN ===!
==!
=!
Giant Rat Stalks New York?
NEW YORK -- In recent weeks a rash of mutilated corpses -- many of them found near docks, subways, or sewers -- had garnered nothing but indifference from the NYPD.
"Isolated and unremarkable" in the words of one police spokesperson.
But while the police seem content to categorize these horrible crimes as nothing more than simple cases of homicide or suicide among the poor and indigent, eyewitness accounts tell a different and all together more frightening story.
"'is a monster, 'nnit?
" says Dickie Cork, a sailor aboard the Matilda Briggs out of Sumatra.
"Thing looked like a rat, it did, only it was big, 'bout the size of a lion or sumthin'.
" Numerous other witnesses all telling remarkably similar accounts of the creature have come forward in recent weeks, but the police refuse to act calling the descriptions "ludicrous" without any further investigation.
But regardless of the truth, the police choose to sit idly by as the killings continue and poor, law-abiding citizens pay the price.
-- Joe Greene, Senior Staff Writer DATACUBE Commander Weld: Code for the warehouse basement ramp is 2577.
Setting up the security grid is absolute first priority -- the assault on Liberty Island will be commencing shortly and we can expect an armed response within short order.
Until the mission objective can be offloaded, the generator must be protected.
It's our last line of defense.
JL DATACUBE Commander Frase: I've completed the initialization of the warehouse perimeter security grids with the login and password you requested; these codes will work for both grids.
I'll set up internal warehouse security measures next -- I don't really trust JoJo to do the job right.
Login: NSF Password: righteous -Decker ALEX Look for the building with the antennas.
DATACUBE All Proud Members of the NSF: Our time is fast approaching; what we have always feared is upon us, have no doubt -- we are fighting against our own imminent slavery.
But you are Brave, you are Strong, and we will Triumph.
A temporary office has been arranged in the warehouse basement for the coordination of equipment, armament, and other supplies.
We request that each member report to the office to be fitted with a telemetry rig prior to proceeding to your assigned post.
The office code is 9923.
JL ALEX Good job, JC.
The power just died at the NSF headquarters.
Now it's up to Paul.
Go to the roof.
A chopper is arriving with Agent Hermann on board.
He will lock down the warehouse while you take the chopper back to HQ.
DATACUBE Commander Frase: The satellite uplink is still intermittent at best; until I can track down the source of the problem, I've established a secure tunneling communications channel for you over NYCNET.
It's encrypted and looks like normal public bulletin traffic to any network sniffers, so it should do until the uplink has been fixed.
Login is "TFrase" and password is "valleyforge".
48 Subject: RE: Collateral Damage I've done my best to convey this to my people, but to be frank, I think we'll need to assume that collateral damage is inevitable and mobilize our own propaganda efforts _now_ in order to blunt or deflect any negative psychological repercussions.
Most of those in the field haven't had any formal military training, and I'm already receiving reports that the action in Hell's Kitchen has resulted in a number of "friendly fire" casualties and hostage situations.
UNATCO's counter-attack has been more aggressive than expected, and some of our troops are going to make bad decisions under pressure.
Grimaldi >We need to impress upon those under our >command that collateral damage in the form of >civilian casualties must be avoided at all >possible costs -- the value of dead or wounded >civilians to UNATCO propaganda efforts is >incalculable and will significantly set back our >cause.
48 Subject: Good Luck I'm preparing to depart for the airfield to oversee the final stages of the operation.
Direct communication will be difficult until the airfield can be secured, but I'll debrief our friend once we rendezvous there and send any necessary tactical updates via couriers.
JL GUNTHER HERMANN Manderley has assigned me the peacekeeping occupation of this district.
How's the raid going?
GUNTHER HERMANN They should have sent Agent Navarre.
Your brother is timid like a child.
GUNTHER HERMANN You do not need to hear anything from me.
Take the helicopter back to base.
I am sure Manderley has planned a debriefing for the top agents.
I do not need assistance.
The helicopter is waiting.
Learn your lesson from Paul.
A simple job.
They have me doing the work of bots.
You will be bored if you stay here with me.
JOCK Last boarding call, UNATCO HQ.
The one asking for beer.
JOCK You don't want to fly one of these birds all wound up.
They have a temperament, especially in a crosswind.
JOCK Last boarding call, UNATCO HQ.
JOCK Glad to finally meet you, Agent.
I'm Jock.
Ready to get back to UNATCO HQ?
JOCK Last boarding call, UNATCO HQ.
NYC - UNATCO HQ JOCK I'll take you back to the city after you check in with Manderley.
ALEX Welcome back.
Your mission was a success -- just about the only bright side of the operation, unfortunately.
Report to Manderley for a briefing.
BODYGUARD Mr.
Denton.
BODYGUARD The prisoners on Level 3 are a sensitive matter.
Leave the interrogations to Mr.
Simons.
You are authorized to receive your orders from Joseph Manderley, after which you will return to the helipad.
You guys from D. C.?
What agency?
BODYGUARD Please proceed to Manderley's office.
We will expect to see you shortly.
Do not question the prisoners yourself.
We will be waiting.
I do not understand the reason for your delay.
Interesting behavior, Mr.
Denton.
TROOP 1 I think the suits are putting the squeeze on Manderley about this one.
Piece of gossip: Anna Navarre likes your style.
Heh-heh.
I bet you guys would make a nice couple.
Gunther's full of it.
Earlier tonight, in the Statue, I bet you had at least a half-dozen takedowns.
At least.
Agent Navarre was gunning her motors about Castle Clinton.
Guess you cleaned the place out.
They've got some kind of specialist from Washington downstairs.
Somebody to interrogate the prisoners.
Don't listen to what they're saying about the shootout in the park in Hell's Kitchen.
You had other priorities.
Guess you stole the show from Gunther earlier tonight.
Poor guy.
He lives for this stuff.
Agent Navarre was gunning her motors about Castle Clinton.
Guess you cleaned the place out.
I'd watch what I say about mechs around Anna Navarre.
Those jerks from Washington think they own the place.
Long night, huh?
They had us picking up the bodies you left in the Statue; what a chore.
They told us to hang tight.
Objectives remain, apparently.
Agent.
TROOP 2 I'd like to know what the Feds are doing down in the cell block.
We lost a buddy of ours in the park in Hell's Kitchen.
Guess there wasn't much you could do.
Still haven't had a chance to clean my gun.
It's a living.
Never shoulda transferred.
I need a vacation.
TROOP 3 Liberty Island is off-limits.
The island has been declared a crime scene and will be the subject of a thorough investigation.
UNATCO's gonna make sure what happened tonight doesn't happen again.
They're bringing in experts from Washington.
Carry on, Agent.
TROOP 4 They still have some terrorist downstairs, ones you didn’t kill in the Statue.
LLOYD Don't worry what the guys are saying about Hell's Kitchen.
If it wasn't for the warehouse, I'm sure you would've helped out with the firefight in front of the hotel.
I know for a fact, from when you were at the Academy, that you can do more than throw gas grenades and use a prod.
They're full of it!
SCOTT Manderley said he's busy but to wait outside his office.
COLLINS Just filling out a report on the mop-up operation.
I saw quite a bit of action today.
I think they give us these things to make sure we don't forget how to read and write.
Is it five kills gets you the Red Eye?
I think I'll put five.
BERRY I heard about the raid.
Don't sweat it.
I'm sure Paul had his reasons.
Your brother's always one step ahead of the rest of us.
You'll see.
SHANNON Carry on, Agent.
Stop following me.
I've already reported you once.
SHANNON Welcome aboard, Agent.
I'm Shannon.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
You're friends with Jaime, right?
He sure did a good job with the casualties tonight.
I've heard that Manderley is more than satisfied with your performance so far.
If you want some extra supplies, you might check the false floor in Jacobson's office.
One of the janitors has sticky fingers, if you know what I mean.
JAIME REYES Keeps getting worse, too.
It must be raining bullets out there.
How are you holding up?
JAIME REYES Fine.
I lost one of the privates because a refrigeration unit went down.
That's always hard.
Don't beat yourself up over faulty equipment.
JAIME REYES By the way, we aren't in such a shambles that we can't spare a few medkits.
Check the storage closet.
You certainly made an impression on the troops tonight.
Looks like it's going to be a late night for both of us.
TROOP 1 I took a few hits tonight.
The Doc had to operate.
TROOP 1 Yes, sir.
I will.
Dr.
Reyes said they took the bullet out, but I still feel it in my stomach.
It's like a piece of ice.
He also said I lost my spleen.
TROOP 2 Thanks for talking to my friend.
He admires you.
I knew what I was getting into when I joined up.
Better I take a bullet than an innocent civilian.
Just doing my job, sir.
BOOK Medical Management of Biological Casualties Handbook U. S.
Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases .
In addition to their detrimental health effects on the targeted population, biological warfare agents would likely cause significant impacts on the medical care system.
Massive numbers of patients and demands for intensive care would overwhelm medical resources.
Special medications or vaccines not generally available in standard pharmaceutical stocks would be required.
Medical care providers and laboratory personnel might need added protection, and autopsy and interment of remains could present hazards not commonly dealt with.
SAM CARTER Agent Denton.
Marvelous.
In addition to an accuracy weapon modification, I've got some 7.
62 mm rounds and a couple of multitools.
Carter, I can't tell you how great it is to be a part of UNATCO.
You should have seen the fighting in Castle Clinton.
SAM CARTER Yeah?
SAM CARTER Went on shooting, huh?
I guess that's what this agency is known for.
SAM CARTER In my day international peacekeepers were citizens first and soldiers second.
You can forget about that extra ammo.
I'm only going to give you the multitools; I think you should concentrate more on mission objectives and less on the enemy body count.
You've got your equipment.
Now move out.
Try to remember: people have rights.
Don't just shoot everything that moves.
My unit killed a bunch of Afghans one time, but we weren't proud of it.
In fact, our liaison at the UN went to the funeral.
ANNA NAVARRE I was here first.
JANICE REED Mr.
Manderley is in a meeting, JC.
You'll have to wait.
ANNA NAVARRE A debriefing.
Do not worry.
I will state in my report that I was satisfied with your performance.
Be quiet.
I am trying to listen.
A bureaucrat from Washington.
See if he asks for any of our opinions.
Wait in line.
JANICE REED You'll have to wait a minute.
Mr.
Manderley is busy.
OFFICIAL Just fire the arrogant son-of-a-bitch.
MANDERLEY I wasn't exaggerating.
He's our best agent.
OFFICIAL We don't need him.
We've got his brother, and more are on the way.
MANDERLEY He knows nothing.
OFFICIAL I think he does.
You should never have sent him to Hong Kong.
MANDERLEY Let's be sensible.
We have to look at the whole record.
OFFICIAL Look, I understand.
He was your pet project.
But it's out of my hands.
Now that the shipment's been lost.
MANDERLEY I know.
I know; I will comply with the order.
OFFICIAL That's all that I ask.
Carry on.
I'm going downstairs to interrogate the prisoners.
ANNA NAVARRE I cannot wait forever.
JANICE REED He will see you when he's ready.
Mr.
Manderley can see you now.
You're going to make a mess.
Hey, I'm trying to work!
What's the idea, JC?
ANNA NAVARRE I am next.
I am losing valuable time.
A little more decorum, please.
OFFICIAL Carry on, Agent.
OFFICIAL Denton.
Yes, I hear you're turning out to be quite an asset to the Coalition.
Forgive me, but I do not believe I know your name.
OFFICIAL We aren't ready for an introduction yet.
No, it's not time.
Just keep your nose to the pavement.
You will be well rewarded.
Trust me.
We're looking to you to set an example.
You aren't needed, Agent.
Manderley will give you your orders.
I must attend to a sensitive matter.
I have an important matter to attend to.
MANDERLEY Hello, JC.
Come in.
Clerical tasks first.
Your op bonus is split between the Castle Clinton and warehouse objectives, 500 each.
You get the full 1000 -- plus 200 for how you handled the hostage situation in the Battery Park subway station.
Good work across the board.
Who was that you were meeting with?
MANDERLEY Politics.
Bureaucracy.
Mismanagement.
JC.
I've got some bad news.
The mission failed.
MANDERLEY Never mind that.
He slipped out before you even got to New York.
MANDERLEY I'm just going to say it straight, JC.
Your brother screwed up.
We got nothing, and he's taking the heat this time.
The Coalition is letting him go.
MANDERLEY We don't know.
He hasn't reported back.
The rest of the strike force says he lost his nerve.
Paul's a good agent.
MANDERLEY Whatever the case, now it's your turn.
We've got one more chance to retake that shipment.
MANDERLEY Take the chopper back to the city.
We know they plan to put the Ambrosia on a plane, but we don't know which airfield.
MANDERLEY If I were the NSF, I'd be moving through the subways, the abandoned parts of the infrastructure.
MANDERLEY And stay away from the press this time, especially the tabloids.
Do I need to quote the manual?
"Secrets are lives.
ANNA NAVARRE I have been waiting for twenty minutes.
MANDERLEY Sorry, Anna.
What is it?
ANNA NAVARRE A new assignment.
I think Agent Denton should handle the assassination.
MANDERLEY Is there a problem?
You lost your appetite?
ANNA NAVARRE His enthusiasm in Battery Park was exceptional.
The courtyard of Castle Clinton was a graveyard.
MANDERLEY Hmmmm.
As a kind of exercise, you mean?
ANNA NAVARRE I think he will make a good assassin.
We should give him the opportunity.
MANDERLEY Hmmmm.
ANNA NAVARRE I am anxious to see one of the experimental agents perform.
MANDERLEY You aren't alone, Anna.
Our pilot Jock is waiting for you at the helipad.
If you see your brother, send him my way.
He didn't report back.
Don't forget to check in with Carter and Reyes.
You have your orders.
Let me get back to work.
I said carry on.
ANNA NAVARRE You have your orders from Mr.
Manderley.
Stop clowning around, Agent.
Get moving.
I refuse to babysit a grown man.
Why are you still here?
BOOK Art of War by Sun Tzu III.
ATTACK BY STRATAGEM 1.
Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good.
So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them.
Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
76490 Subject: Report As ordered, I have maintained a close watch of Agent Denton during our operation in New York.
I have found his performance to be adequate to the task, if not without occasional reluctance.
But it is my opinion that nano-augmentations in no way compensate for experience, and Agent Denton quite obviously has a considerable amount of learning to do before he can be considered a fully qualified agent.
Agent Hermann concurs with this evaluation.
I will file a more detailed report when time allows.
76490 Subject: Arrival I will be arriving at Liberty later today to survey the situation and assess the viability of the primary subject.
Unless there are extenuating circumstances that you've so far failed to present to us, it is our belief that the primary may need to be terminated in favor of the secondary.
Continue to profile the secondary's response to authority and mission objectives -- if there is any deviation, isolate the subject for debriefing upon my arrival.
BOOK Righteous Angels: Perspectives on UNATCO by Wendi White Chapter II.
The New Seraphim As the giddiness that greeted the new millenium faded to grim apathy in the face of the plague, famine, and the inevitable waves of national convulsions that followed in their wake, the United Nations found itself increasingly outmoded and unable to cope with the worldwide rise in terrorism.
Tensions between the affluent -- walled away within private enclaves -- and those less fortunate escalated rapidly as basic medical care facilities collapsed under the weight of each new outbreak.
The very pervasiveness of the Net fractured communities into smaller and smaller special-interest groups.
And as local police grew increasingly ineffectual and access to deadlier weaponry more commonplace, conflicts spilled over national borders and onto the streets of major urban cities.
The United Nations was forced to admit that their own military was both outmoded and unequipped to deal with these threats, so a new organization was required -- UNATCO, an army of seraphim, divinely charged to mete out impartial justice with burning wings and flaming swords.
BULLETINS Stopping Terror -- A New Perspective on Freedom When one maniac can wipe out a city of twenty million with a microbe developed in his basement, a new approach to law enforcement becomes necessary.
Every citizen in the world must be placed under surveillance.
That means sky-cams at every intersection, computer-mediated analysis of every phone call, e-mail, and snail-mail, and a purely electronic economy in which every transaction is recorded and data-mined for suspicious activity.
We are close to achieving this goal.
Some would say that human liberty has been compromised, but the reality is just the opposite.
As surveillance expands, people become free from danger, free to walk alone at night, free to work in a safe place, and free to buy any legal product or service without the threat of fraud.
One day every man and woman will quietly earn credits, purchase items for quiet homes on quiet streets, have cook-outs with neighbors and strangers alike, and sleep with doors and windows wide open.
If that isn't the tranquil dream of every free civilization throughout history, what is?
-- Anna Navarre, Agent, UNATCO Terrorism -- War Without Fronts How do we fight an underground threat, one with no defined territory, base, or - - often -- known leader?
We look to military history.
The casebook example of how to manage civil unrest is the Hamlet Evaluation System (HES) developed by the United States military during its occupation of South Vietnam in the 20th Century.
Since population centers in that country contained both Communist rebels and loyal citizens, the towns were ranked on a scale from 1 to 5, five being the safest.
The monthly reports of local commanders, useful in Vietnam for maintaining contour maps of ideology concentration, have provided many components of the UNATCO Sector Field Report.
The modern UDU (UNATCO Deployed Unit) has been modeled on the CAP (Combined Action Platoon) deployed in Vietnam, a 15-man rifle squad responsible for a single hamlet.
CAP-protected villages typically earned a 2.
95 HES score, compared to a 1.
6 average in the same region.
CAP units performed in many mission roles, but they primarily worked with indigenous police to strengthen ideological ties.
Like CAP units, UNATCO teams are primarily concerned with building safe communities.
-- Joseph Manderley, Director, UNATCO Know Your Enemy -- Templars There is some debate as to whether the Templars should be considered a "terrorist" organization because they do not employ the typical tools of terrorism.
But make no mistake, the Templars are just as dangerous as any other group that might use guns and bombs to intimidate the free citizens of a country -- only the Templars wield blackmail and extortion as their weapons.
Supposedly the direct descendent of a so-called "secret society" with its roots in the medieval Crusades, the present-day Templars are mainly concerned with increasing their own bank accounts in elaborately illegal financial manipulations that have left entire markets collapsed in their wake.
The Templars are currently classified as inactive after being successfully diminished by a combined UNATCO/Interpol raid on their Paris headquarters in 2051; however, several key Templar figures are still at large and may attempt to reform the organization under a new designation.
Know Your Enemy -- X-51 Little is known about "X-51" aside from their involvement in all manner of illegal research, much of it proscribed by worldwide concordes over the last fifty years.
Computer profiling shows a high likelihood that X-51 was responsible for the SoCal disaster that submerged much of southern California, though the exact nature of the experiment that led to the tragedy is still unknown.
Little other information is available on the overall objective of X-51, if any exists.
X-51 is believed to be led by Gary Savage, a scientist previously employed by the United States government for a variety of black projects until he disappeared under mysterious circumstances several years ago.
All agents are advised to be vigilant for any indications as to the whereabouts of Savage or other members of X-51, and report them immediately to their operator or immediate superior.
9868 Subject: Congrats Congrats on surviving your first mission, JC.
I know it's all part of the job, but I'm glad to see you back in one piece (more or less) anyways.
If you get this message before I get a chance to see you in person, then get your ass down here so I can patch you up.
BTW, I hear a few things from up top and I get the impression that they were definitely taking advantage of this NSF attack to evaluate your performance -- so far, everyone seems to be ecstatic.
Well everyone except Gunther, but he's got his own problems.
Keep it up, but keep an eye out, too.
I get the impression sometimes that everyone here has their own agenda.
9868 Subject: Watch Your Back I don't have much time, so I'm gonna have to cut this short -- they're going to tell you a lot of things about what went on today, and it's probably all going to get pinned on me.
I've got my reasons, but I can't go into them right now -- not over the Net -- but you've got to trust me that there are reasons.
Maybe I can point you in the right direction, tap a few computers and see what you come up with.
Try Manderley's computer if you can risk it, password is "knight_killer.
" You might also check Navarre's, but I don't have her password.
Cold woman, be careful around her.
And for that matter, everyone else.
76490 Subject: Inquiry The Oracle says: We find your question interesting.
We have several references to entity token "MJ12" but all are ambiguous.
Will be necessary to expend cycles to clarify relationships for codification of representative patterns before further recognition can be accomplished.
This will be time consuming, but past working relationships have shown a 83.
23% favorable return.
Work with file "SH-187" was very instructive.
We will contact you again when information has been collated.
[[The Oracle would like to know your favorite color.
20892 Subject: RE: Mech-Aug Question?
Information concerning the mechanism to which you refer is available only to those with clearance of Throne/6G or higher.
Further discussion of this matter with unauthorized personnel will result in disciplinary action.
All subsequent questions should be directed to Director Manderley.
UNATCO, Office of Medical Directorate >While repairing one of our mech-augmented >agents, I located a mechanism within the >autonomic regulation system that was not >present in any of the documentation I had >available; I'm concerned that failure of this >mechanism could lead to a complete >autonomic shut-down of the agent's vital >systems with the obvious consequences that >would entail.
1131 Subject: Denotn i am not sure what I thnk of our Agent Denton.
He iz not like the brother, but seemz to eagr to prove that he may bbbe better than us.
I wonder if he unnerstand may what be at stske here.
1131 Subject: Mission Objectives Of primary importance in the upcoming operation is recovering _all_ of the stolen Ambrosia -- if any falls into terrorist hands, it could be a potential tool for blackmail that would pose a serious security risk.
However, our best intelligence indicates that Juan Lebedev -- a known terrorist leader -- is behind this galling attack; while the loss of the Ambrosia is a regrettable salvageable incident, Lebedev poses a continuing threat to UNATCO.
He is also a dangerous man, and if the operation should result in his termination rather than capture, there is no doubt that the agent responsible would be found acted appropriately and with the full force of the law.
JM TROOP 1 I don't think you're supposed to be down here, Agent.
I won't say anything, but I think you should go.
Manderley will chew us out if he finds out you were here.
TROOP 2 Manderley says only senior staff members can interview the prisoners.
They won't talk.
We've tried everything.
I won't say anything if you go back there.
I think Mr.
Simons wants to be alone with the prisoner.
OFFICIAL I have one question.
PRISONER They already asked.
I DON'T know.
OFFICIAL One must admire a man who can keep a secret, because he has value.
What you know more than others makes money and gives you a measure of power.
PRISONER You Walton Simons?
You think I can be bribed?
OFFICIAL Margaret Forsythe, under NSF protection in Queens.
Your son Richard, attending Bronx Science.
You see, I have a few relevant facts myself.
Care to make a trade?
PRISONER You wouldn't dare.
OFFICIAL I'll give you two seconds to decide.
Get out of here, Denton.
This is none of your business.
Time's up.
Where is the NSF taking the Ambrosia?
PRISONER They asked me already.
I DON'T know.
OFFICIAL Need I remind you that in the case of a national emergency FEMA has a list of six million Americans who will be transported to detention centers?
Your tabloids call it RX 84.
PRISONER Yeah, including the President, Congress, and the Supreme Court.
OFFICIAL In my position, I find it very easy to add names to that list.
PRISONER Go to hell.
The United States government has had "emergency powers" since World War II.
We've never left a state of war.
OFFICIAL Speak for yourself.
The federal government is just responding to a threat.
PRISONER A government should be about more than self-perpetuation.
OFFICIAL You will confess, by the way.
I don't like to dirty my hands with that sort of thing, but you will confess.
Certain intellectual properties, aside from the quantities of vaccine, concern me deeply.
Has the NSF made any attempt at reverse-engineering?
PRISONER Leave me alone.
OFFICIAL If you wanted to save people, you could have unloaded the whole shipment in Manhattan.
Why the airlift?
PRISONER You said it yourself: secrets are power.
OFFICIAL We have less civilized ways of making you talk.
I am a patient man.
PRISONER Ask me if I care.
OFFICIAL But not that patient.
You saw nothing, Denton.
Report to Manderley.
(You saw nothing, Denton.
Report to the helipad.
) Your turn.
See what you can find out in Manhattan.
The real plague, eating at the minds of the American people, is secessionism, regionalism, this new arrogance and sense of entitlement.
Once the bug bites, you've already lost the patient.
Do you have even a passing interest in doing your job?
Quit screwing around.
Leave, dammit!
SCOTT Hope this one turns out a little better.
LLOYD Your chopper's ready, Agent.
Good luck out there.
Give 'em hell, Denton.
BODYGUARD Get on the helicopter, Mr.
Denton.
Simons did not appreciate your interference.
Please do not keep us waiting.
We are needed inside.
BODYGUARD You may use the helicopter, Mr.
Denton.
Simons appreciates your respect for his interrogation of the prisoners.
DATACUBE JANINE'S BOTS SPECS AND OVERVIEW MATSU-GRAVAS R-118 REPAIR BOT The Matsu-Gravas R-118 is characteristic of all bots in the M-G repair line, an autonomous unit capable of a wide range of repair, maintenance, and construction tasks.
By default, the R-118 is equipped with a Kroya 'Searchlight 3' argon laser attached to the standard M-G IRL arm; Chiang optics and visual processing; a self-recharging bioelectric battery; wireless command control; and 16GB of internal memory for a superior amount of task customization at an affordable price.
The bioelectric interface adheres to the same LITE standard pioneered by M-G and adopted by most other companies around the world, allowing all units in the R-line to act as mobile bioelectric rechargers if necessary.
NYC - BATTERY PARK ALEX We're dropping you in Battery Park -- we know the NSF were moving materials through here at one point.
Seems like a good place to start looking.
TROOP I think we scared 'em off.
Except for that one barrel of Ambrosia, there's been no sign of the shipment.
Don't tell Navarre -- we've let some of the bums back into the park.
They don't have anywhere to go.
Maybe check the shanty town.
A lot of strange characters go through there.
Nothing to report, Agent.
You can assure UNATCO that the area has been secured.
An NYPD Crime Scene Unit came by.
They said they didn't find much.
Not much happening -- city's under curfew.
BUM I saw you earlier.
You're the guy they sent into the subway station.
You don't LOOK augmented.
I don't see why they don't just use robots.
Pretty soon, it'll just be machines that fight wars.
RIOT COP We sure appreciate the help tonight, Agent.
We made a sweep of the area: no sign of the NSF.
If you want eyewitnesses, I'd say check the subway or the shanty town.
You'll be the first to know if we find anything.
They've got us on patrol until morning.
All quiet up here.
MAN (moans) They got Ambrosia.
I know they have some.
Barrels of Ambrosia.
But they say it's go to be processed or it'll kill you faster than the Gray Death.
I don't care.
I'd try anything.
I hope the NSF leave some Ambrosia in New York.
Everyone says they're gonna ship it to China.
I can't make it another day.
I just want it to be over!
TROOP We've got the secret passage sealed up, sir.
They call it a "bolt hole.
" It's probably been part of the fort since it was built.
Looks like the terrorists were using it to smuggle supplies.
Don't worry.
No one's getting past us.
BUM This whole place got shot up just a few minutes ago.
The United Nations invaded the city because of the NSF.
I think most of the rebels got away.
The NSF won't get caught because they know how to use the secret parts of the subway.
My dad always said that someday the UN would have an army and would try to take over the United States.
I thought he was cracked in the head.
FEMALE Go away.
just.

contagious.
I got no use for a handout.
Every day, some new disease.
I think it's government labs.
Oh, thank you for talking to this old bag of bones.
Most people, they look at you like you're already dead.
Don't forget to wash the fruit.
I think that's how I got it.
Take care of yourself.
That's enough.
You're wearing me out.
BUM I'm keeping outta the way, like they said.
You don't have to push.
I didn't have NOTHIN' to do with what went down tonight.
The NSF got what they wanted.
It's all I know.
What?
WHAT?
Yeah, I been in trouble with the law before.
So what?
When I'm in jail?
It's usually because I fell asleep somewhere.
Like.
like it's a crime to sleep.
Don't seem to be too much to ask for, a piece of ground.
BUM We lost the battle today -- I admit it, yes Lord.
BUM Had myself a division, mind you, back when we were the Northwest Secessionist Forces.
Years ago.
They thought they had us licked, like they think they have licked us tonight, but -- lookit me, young sir!
-- we're God's army, and what infernal devil can stop God's army?
you take care of yourself.
BUM Found me two thirty-ought-six clips.
Now all I need's a gun, and then it's me and Satan, yes Satan, one last look into the Devil's red eyes.
But maybe you should let a soldier from the younger generation take the clips off your hands.
What do you want for them?
BUM Huh.
You mean, money?
You wanna buy 'em?
Well, guess I'd take about 300 for each one.
BUM A young soldier of God.
Is that it?
Oh, hallelujah!
BUM Praise Heaven.
We gather and wait.
Now tell me, young sir, that smart look on your face, if the army has the streets but the rebels still have the subways and the tunnels, is that a UN victory?
Those NSF boys certainly don't have trouble bringing in supplies, with or without the streets.
With the help of angels and our God in Heaven, amen, our brothers tonight -- all but a few -- gave the jackals the slip.
KID Hey, you a cop?
The terrorists got away.
The built a secret passage in the subway station.
You didn't used to be able to get to Brooklyn Bridge Station from here.
It's neat, but I wouldn't go there now, even if I knew the code.
BOOK "Hell is murky," that's what Macbeth said.
* They came through today, bunch of the NSF boys, set up a perimeter in the shanty town and took some folks hostage down in the station.
One of them told me it was necessary, that the government made it necessary -- "we're slaves if we don't," I remember her saying, and I asked her if she thought those people down in the station felt any more free for being strapped to a bunch of dynamite.
She just looked at me, walked away.
* MOLE/6653 * Kevin's dealing with them, says we don't risk anything by letting them use the tunnels, that we don't have no quarrel with anyone.
But I wonder about hell and the roads paved to it.
-- Curly BUM Oh, thank you again.
My hands get so cold.
CURLY Like I said, we'll probably both get kicked out when whoever it is gets back.
I live underground.
BUM All the same.
Plenty of room around the fire.
CURLY Cops said I could be here.
Besides, I ain't campin'.
I'm with the mole people.
" CURLY They call us that because we live underground -- huh, like they're some kind of superior beings or something because they've got more money than we do.
Anywhere underground would be safer than Battery Park.
CURLY The moles need someone topside.
Besides, it's been pretty quiet.
I'd rather be here than have the NSF tromping around with machine guns.
CURLY Yeah, they haven't hurt anybody.
We guess it's all right.
Think you could tell me how to find the moles?
CURLY Sure.
Just give me the password so I know they trust you.
CURLY Still need a password.
Remember the password yet?
1-2-3-4 CURLY I've got to have the password.
CURLY Good.
Long as they've decided to give you access.
Go to the phone booth in the subway station.
The code's M-O-L-E.
That's 6635.
CURLY When you get to the Brooklyn Bridge Station, talk to Charlie; he'll get you into the tunnels where we live.
BUM Think it's true?
The vaccine they got -- think it would really kill you?
CURLY It's super-concentrated.
I heard the NSF talking.
They're gonna process it, though.
BUM I hope so.
I can't go much longer.
What about the mole settlement?
You taking new people?
CURLY Well.
It's not the best time, not right now.
BUM I don't mind.
I'd sleep in the dirt.
Whatever.
CURLY The thing is, they've got this policy.
No one with the Gray Death can go past Brooklyn Bridge Station.
BUM Oh.
I see.
CURLY I'm sorry, miss.
Really.
BUM No need.
No, I understand.
CURLY Charlie's the Lieutenant Mayor.
He takes care of infrastructure.
I like Charlie.
He's always been straight with me.
We live in the tunnels west of Brooklyn Bridge Station.
It's not a bad place.
Lots of good people down there.
We have our own government, elections.
a REAL democracy.
Democracy's for small towns.
That's how it developed, back in Athens.
We're modeled on the Greeks -- with no outside influences!
When there's millions of people in the country, no one has any say about anything.
Big countries always turn into dictatorships, then they fall apart under their own weight.
Thought you were in a hurry to track down the NSF.
BUM Don't worry.
We're allowed to be here.
Cops have been pretty cool tonight.
It's little things, once in a while, that make you feel not so much like a leper anymore.
BILLY Hey, you a cop?
The terrorists got away.
They built a secret passage in the subway station.
You didn't used to be able to get to Brooklyn Bridge Station from here.
It's neat, but I wouldn't go down there now, even if I knew the code.
FILBEN It wasn't a favor.
I was well-paid.
I hope it wasn't a wasted trip.
FILBEN No sweat, man.
I got paid.
That's what matters.
FILBEN I see it like this.
It all balances out.
UNATCO's just as much gun freaks as the militias, and if everybody's gonna shoot it out, fine, so long as neither side wins and takes over the whole country.
It's the safety of ordinary people like yourself.
FILBEN I know an army when I see one.
Look, I'll be blunt -- got any cash?
There's a secret passage behind that phone booth over there.
For 500, I'll tell you where to get the code.
FILBEN Change your mind?
500 for where I can find the code to the phone booth.
FILBEN Talk to Curly in the shantytown in Battery Park.
He's from the mole-people settlement.
You have to give him the password "Underworld.
He said the NSF were hiding out with the moles.
Are they allies?
FILBEN They both hate the Feds, but that's it.
The moles don't want a war.
They just want to be left alone in their tunnels.
FILBEN I doubt the NSF gave them much choice.
Heard anything about that?
FILBEN Nothing I could put a price on.
UNATCO already thinks it's Juan Lebedev.
FILBEN I don't know who else it could be.
He owns a whole terminal at LaGuardia.
Manderley's been trying to bump him off for years.
FILBEN City had some debts a few years back.
There's always a buyer.
But Lebedev's small-time.
He can't buy off the big politicians like a Bob Page.
FILBEN People lower down, but useful.
Some of your buddies at UNATCO, actually.
FILBEN Ah-ha-ha.
You can't afford that one.
Yeah, if it's Lebedev, you're gonna have a chance to be a hero.
Manderley wants him dead.
Figured you'd come through here.
You want to know something, find me.
NYC - BROOKLYN BRIDGE ALEX After the quakes, the homeless drifted down here, junkies, runaways, grifters.
There's a DSS file a mile long on this place.
Some of them -- the so-called "mole people" -- have permanent living quarters in an adjacent tunnel system not on my map.
HOOKER Hi, honey.
I don't handle the money.
Talk to Charlie.
You want zyme, talk to the guy in the corner.
His name's Rock.
You deaf?
I said I don't handle the money.
Beat it.
JUNKIE The doctors in that clinic?
They ain't worth five credits.
Nurse knew I was sick.
She just don't care.
I've got the plague.
That's why I look like this.
They should be giving me disability.
It's my right.
Government lets people get poor, then they wonder why someone jacks their Mercedes.
HOMELESS You don't want to camp with THEM.
Trust me, they're too political.
HOMELESS I STARTED the mole people.
I was there first.
And then they made up committees that throw people out just because they don't like the way you look.
HOMELESS Don't bother.
They're elitist, and now the NSF is down there, too.
It stinks down there, anyway.
I'm a classic example of the individualist.
I do better on my own.
The only thing about staying up here is the rooks.
One time I was drunk and fell asleep and they put me on the train tracks.
Good thing the 5 is shut down.
CHARLIE Are you the Feds?
We don't need a war down here.
CHARLIE Well, the NSF come through here, but they don't bother us.
If we need help with anything, it's our plumbing.
We lost pressure because of the explosions on South Street.
You tell me about the NSF, and I'll put in a word with the city about the water.
CHARLIE The city don't know we got water and they don't NEED to know.
How about you fix it and then I'll talk.
CHARLIE I would open the valve myself, but there was a cave-in; the utility door's blocked.
It's up at the north end of the tracks, in case you want to take a look.
CHARLIE It could be done; a LAM would do the trick.
It's just that I'm not gonna be the one to talk to the Rooks.
They'd probably sell us one, but they don't like people going into their turf, which is the whole upper level.
I tried to clear a path to the door, but I'm not worth a nickel anymore.
The gang runs the whole upper level of the station.
The leader calls himself El Rey, but he's just a punk.
The city don't care if we siphon off a bit.
You wanna get to our hideout, you go through me.
LENNY Get out!
I got a bomb!
LENNY Might as well use it.
Rock says I owe him.
He won't even give me one vial for it.
LENNY I think they said it was called a LAM.
LENNY I gotta, man.
I need a vial of zyme.
Oh my God.
All I want's one, right now.
just one vial.
Sorry.
LENNY I'm gonna kill Rock.
LENNY You got some?
Really?
Let's see the LAM.
LENNY Take it, man.
Whatever.
Where's the zyme?
I killed homeboy out by the tracks.
LENNY (sighs) Better, much better.
I was feeling pretty bad.
(LENNY Yeah, you said it.
All I want's one, right now.
just one vial.
CHARLIE Good.
Glad to see you UNATCO boys do something for the community.
CHARLIE The NSF.
Yeah, they took over the tunnels.
CHARLIE Go to the women's restroom on the other side of the station.
Look for a keypad under the sink.
The combination's 5482.
I'm glad I could help you out.
CHARLIE Be careful when there's a gunfight; there are families living down there.
The mole people aren't militant like the NSF.
The NSF want a base down there because it's close to LaGuardia.
Thanks again.
GANGSTER Hol' up, bro'!
GANGSTER You on Rooks territory now.
Just so you know.
GANGSTER That's right.
Up here?
It's business.
You wanna do business, talk to El Rey.
GANGSTER Just take it easy, bro'.
Be cool.
No one up here's looking for a fight.
El Rey runs the show.
We're gonna be Special Forces for the NSF, if they give us some chits.
You can stick around, long as you have legitimate business.
All this -- as far as you can see - it's Rooks territory.
GIRL 1 Whassup?
Back off.
You have business, talk to El Rey.
Hey, cut it out!
Homely-ass mark, get your ass away from me.
Who sent you, JoJo?
Tell that punk we're layin' for him.
Gonna expand our operation.
I said, back off!
Juss be straight with El Rey.
He be straight with you.
GIRL 2 You wanna talk to El Rey?
Thass cool.
The Rooks?
We hang mostly underground, but we're about to spread out.
Next, we're gonna move on Rock.
You wanna run with us?
Bet El Rey'd say okay.
Thassa fly coat.
GIRL 3 You ain't all that.
Think you're bad, struttin' around Rooks' turf.
You better keep yourself in line.
You come in Rooks territory, you show respect.
( EL REY Whoa-whoa-whoa.
Easy, bro'.
You don't gotta kill no one!
Who says?
EL REY Wha'chu want?
I got this LAM.
You can HAVE it, man.
The Rooks?
We're businessmen.
We can have a business relationship.
EL REY Sure, bro'.
Yeah.
Take it.
Maybe you should think about going back to school.
EL REY Juss be cool, bro'.
Thass it, bro'.
You got my only one.
You didn't have to kill no one.
Either your life is worth more than a LAM, or it's not worth living.
EL REY Thass all I got, man!
) EL REY Hey, bro'.
What's with the getup?
EL REY Yeah?
Charlie should mind his own business.
I hear the NSF are operating around here somewhere.
Know anything about it?
EL REY I guess I seen'em, but that's it.
You a militia type?
I can hook you up with some explosives.
Serious stuff, man.
EL REY Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa -- We ain't talkin' firecrackers, understand.
What I got, it comes from a guy at UNATCO.
Hardcore munitions and shit.
EL REY I got a LAM.
Know what that is?
EL REY Either that, or you work for it.
You into fighting?
I need someone to take care of the dealer downstairs.
EL REY Yeah?
You killed him?
EL REY Hot damn.
That guy you just killed?
Knocked him unconscious, flat on his back.
EL REY Unconscious?
You deaf?
I said I want homeboy DEAD.
You gonna survive on the street, bro', you gotta have some sense, like what I tell my crew: no mercy.
When it's you and the enemy: no mercy.
You trying to lecture me on tactics?
EL REY Take it easy.
We work it out.
I get one of my boys to finish the hit.
Good enough.
That guy?
1 EL REY You want it for free -- you know what to do.
2 EL REY The dealer's name's Rock.
He hangs out on the east side in the corner.
3 EL REY A LAM for the price of a couple of slugs in homeboy's head.
That's a deal.
) EL REY He's been in my way for months.
Now I got the whole station.
You can have the LAM.
Now I can afford me a GEP gun.
You don't want to be nowhere near one of these things when it goes off.
Downstairs, I'ma start my own operation.
(Tell Charlie I don't want him advertising that I got hot merchandise, right?
) KID Leave me alone.
The rule is you're supposed to use the secret passage and leave us alone.
Man, it stinks in here.
DON (whimper) Hey!
Hey!
Man.
Got any zyme?
DON Just a little bit, a crumb.
DON Oh God.
Oh.

stand here forever.
DEALER What you need, bro'?
Vials are 250.
DEALER .
mess you up.
1 DEALER Rock's the name, guy.
Anything you want.
2 DEALER Come on, bro'.
No cops down here.
3 DEALER You need something to mellow you out.
DEALER Gang?
Who calls 'em a gang?
DEALER Bunch of pussycats.
I come within fifty yards, they scatter.
DEALER .
always talkin' big, tryin'a be players.
The junkies found a box of LAMs the other day; now El Rey puts on the show of being an arms dealer.
DEALER Oh, sure.
Only a matter of time until someone's stash disappears and people start blowing up.
DEALER Good neighbors keep each other's business private.
DEALER I'm a good neighbor.
You want to buy something or not?
Start talking.
DEALER I ain't goin' back to jail.
First word: Ambrosia.
DEALER Bitch I ain't goin' back to jail!
DON Man.
Got any zyme?
DON Oh.
Cool.
Thanks, man.
DON Yeah.
sure.
They're in the tunnels.

DON The keypad's under the sink.
In the women's bathroom.
Everybody knows that.

DON Got me.
The mole people keep me out cuz they don't like zyme.
DON Thanks, dude!
Ahhhhh.
Ohhhh.
Who needs Rock?
Huh?
Not me.
He could just die.
Take his fifty-cut zyme and blow.
Under the sink, man.
Look under the sink.
NYC - MOLE TUNNELS NSF TERRORIST 1 The panel's secured.
NSF TERRORIST 2 Good.
The boobytraps?
NSF TERRORIST 1 Installed.
They really think he'll make it this far?
NSF TERRORIST 2 Paul said not to take any chances.
NSF TERRORIST 1 Well, I guess he would know.
NSF TERRORIST 2 These UNATCO guys are like machines.
Don’t know what they are.
(NSF TERRORIST 1 Don’t shoot!
We got word.
We’re standing down.
We won’t get in the way.
NSF TERRORIST 2 I surrender!
We don’t know anything!
Easy, man!
) PERSON 1 Take it easy.
I'm on your side.
They made me do work for them.
I used to handle records at a shipyard, so they had me break into the inventory systems.
I was able to locate shipments of Ambrosia.
Guess it's not so bad if they manage to help some of the sick people.
If you're looking for the leader, he's in a secret room next to the storage area beside us.
I tried to get away this morning, but I got caught.
Then they shot my cat.
Like I said, I was just a prisoner.
They didn't tell me much.
PERSON 2 You with the police?
They just moved a bunch of barrels through here.
You still have time to catch them.
They think because they have guns we're afraid, but we're not.
We've been waiting for the right chance to run these jerks out of town.
PERSON 3 You from the Feds?
We don't need any help.
Hell, the NSF don't hurt anybody.
This is our place.
We can do what we want.
The city condemned this part of the subway.
This is free territory.
The NSF have every right to stand up to the government.
Somebody's gotta.
Doesn't seem like much to ask from the City of New York -- a damn hole in the ground.
KID 1 I know a secret!
KID 1 It's about the NSF commander.
You know how he gets in his secret room?
KID 1 He does something with a brick behind those cardboard boxes.
It's true!
I saw it.
KID 1 At the south end, where the room is.
Where else?
It's not too pretty in there.
I was just over there myself.
KID 1 I know lotsa secrets.
My Dad says you don't get anywhere if you can't keep a secret.
When I grow up, I'm gonna be rich, cuz I'm gonna know everything.
KID 2 You're the spy, huh?
The metal guys knew you were coming.
They have a plan.
They're gonna kill you.
They turned on hot steam in one tunnel and put laser traps in the other.
The guards at the helicopter base are supposed to shoot you when you show up.
You better go back.
BRADLEY They move supplies through here.
There's nothing we can do about it.
BRADLEY A bunch of barrels came through about an hour ago.
Woke us all up.
BRADLEY They went through that bathroom, like they always do.
Only way to get a key is from the NSF commander -- the guy who lives to the south.
But I bet he'd die first.
BRADLEY It's a secret room.
You open the door by pushing a brick they keep hidden behind some cardboard boxes.
You won't have to worry about the NSF for much longer.
BRADLEY The terrorist leader's command post is on this side of the tunnel to the south.
He was somewhat cooperative but I had to take him down.
I don't think you'll have to worry about the NSF for a while.
He's an accountant or something.
I don't think he'll give you any trouble.
BRADLEY If you're looking for the airfield, you're gonna want to go to the north end of the chamber.
They've built a secret passageway in the men's bathroom.
I didn't want a fight, but I guess it turned out for the best.
You'd think the revolutionaries would have more respect for the people they're trying to fight for.
I'm not against the NSF, but we've got families down here.
This isn't a barracks.
LEADER I surrender.
LEADER I'll cooperate.
Relax.
The key to the men's restroom is on the table.
LEADER Hey, I'm just an accountant.
I know the body-armor looks threatening, but I'm part-time, like a reservist.
I don't want any trouble.
The key's on the corner of the table.
I never wanted to see action.
I know when to stand down.
What is it now?
Knock it off.
( NSF TERRORIST Hold fire!
I surrender!
Easy, man.
I won’t get in your way.
You want this stinking rat hole, you got it.
Don’t look at me.
I just follow orders.
You won’t find anything down here.
If you’re from the Feds, you’re a little late.
) NYC - HELIBASE ALEX These sewage tunnels look like they come out somewhere by the airfield.
Be careful, though.
The terrorists probably expect intruders.
You're entering a helibase terminal below a private section of LaGuardia.
Veer to the east.
You should be able to take the elevator to ground level.
If you hit trouble, double-back across the platform.
There's a sewer drain to the northwest which leads to a pond next to the airfield.
We think we know who's moving the shipment.
More in a minute.
Looks like you're on the right track.
That's one of the three missing barrels of Ambrosia.
We'll be sending a team to recover it.
See if you can find the other two.
DATACUBE Young, if you or Decker need to access my account the login is "etodd" and the password is "saintmary".
36 Subject: Out Sick I'm not feeling so well so I think I'm going to take tomorrow off.
But you and I are having a rematch on that pool game when I get back.
36 Subject: Quick Note Killian showed up with this canister they managed to swipe from Liberty along with the Ambrosia -- handed it off to me, like I'd know what to do with it.
I'll load it onto the plane but then I need to get down to the dock and see what the hell's going on down there.
Juan's not around, so do me a favor and let him know that the suspension crate code for this stuff is 9905 -- maybe he'll know what to do with it.
These other monkeys can't remember birthdays much less a code.
And tell Younger to get his ass in gear, we're not screwing around out there.
-Decker DATACUBE Erin, the Ambrosia's been delivered and the first barrel is being offloaded onto the helicopter -- the other barrels are heading out by boat and plane so we can hopefully get at least one sample away for analysis.
If you can, rendevous with us at one of the departure points, otherwise you know where to meet if something goes wrong.
You've done a lot for the cause and should be proud of yourself.
Now play it safe and get gone.
JL NEWSPAPER Seasonal Flooding Minimal APR - London, United Kingdom An article recently published in the Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society indicates that worldwide flooding from melting ice caps will be significantly less this year than in previous years due to an unusually cold winter in the Northern Hemisphere.
Dr.
Tammy Bright, a professor of climatology at Oxford University, led the study and noted that global tides should rise by no more than "one to two meters on average" in most major cities throughout North America, Europe, Russia, and East Asia.
For comparison the high water mark in New York last year was four meters, requiring millions of credits in additional spending for a network of levees and pumps.
"While theories concerning the significant increase in days below freezing at either pole abound, the practical upshot is that Arctic ice density has grown substantially when compared to any similar period in the last five years.
" NEWSPAPER McMoran Slings Chinese Ore APR - Beijing, China With the announcement by the Chinese last week that the Zhou Enlai Lunar Mining Complex was fully operational, today McMoran Global Steel held a press conference to detail the first delivery of lunar ore from the facility to Earth via a mass driver constructed by McMoran.
"The McMoran MD-118 Mass Driver is the first piece of accelerated stock to be constructed on such a scale, and certainly the first to operate extraterestrially," said Sean Murphy.
"The selection of McMoran for this contract by the Chinese government is a major step towards closer economic ties between China and the U. S. " McMoran won the contract in a heated bidding war with Page Industries that reached its most fevered pitch when Page attempted an unsuccessful hostile takeover of McMoran.
BOOK The Man Who Was Thursday by G. K. Chesterton .
Syme had never thought of asking whether the monstrous man who almost filled and broke the balcony was the great President of whom the others stood in awe.
He knew it was so, with an unaccountable but instantaneous certainty.
Syme, indeed, was one of those men who are open to all the more nameless psychological influences in a degree a little dangerous to mental health.
Utterly devoid of fear in physical dangers, he was a great deal too sensitive to the smell of spiritual evil.
Twice already that night little unmeaning things had peeped out at him almost pruriently, and given him a sense of drawing nearer and nearer to the head-quarters of hell.
And this sense became overpowering as he drew nearer to the great President.
BOOK Jacob's Shadow by Andrew Hammond Chapter 15 Waiting was always the hardest part: in the stir, and in life.
Guys who couldn't handle it either ended up rocking back and forth in a dark corner, or babbling incoherently.
Always the same.
Jacob would have been the one rocking in the corner.
He did solitary the first time after fight, someone thinking he was an easy mark.
Forty-eight hours and he started screaming and didn't stop until his larynx was raw and his voice cracked.
It was a month before he could talk again.
One of the lifers saw Jacob wasn't as fence-post dumb as the rest of the population and took to schooling him in chess.
Jacob never got much respect from the old-timer, but he got his sanity.
He'd play chess, checkers, backgammon, any game there was.
He got into another fight when one pendejo who was looking to make a name for himself flipped over Jacob's game board, said impolite things about people and their little kiddie games.
Jacob cracked one of his ribs and amused himself for a week in solitary playing Kasparov and Bobby Fischer in his head.
NSF TERRORIST Two weeks in a militia training camp.
I'm not ready for this.
I guess this beats starving back home.
Hot as hell in these masks.
When we gonna see some action?
Sooner or later they’re just gonna find us.
NYC - AIRFIELD ALEX This is the terminal at LaGuardia owned by Juan Ivanovich Lebedev.
We're certain based on what you've discovered that he's working with terrorists.
Your orders are to locate and kill him.
We're sending you a map of the airfield.
Great.
That should make sure you and I won't miss any shots.
I've notified the recovery team.
One barrel left -- we think this one may actually be on Lebedev's jet.
DATACUBE Young: I've got to survey the perimeter -- reports are coming back of someone heading this way through the tunnels.
Don't know what their force composition is, but it sounds bad.
If I'm not back, load up the Ambrosia as soon as the boat arrives and then head for the hangar -- the East Gate is locked, so get the key.
I'll meet you there.
DATACUBE Juan asked me for the hangar code, so it's 5914.
Tell Young not to get his ass shot off -- you know how I feel about him.
And I _will_ kill you if something happens.
I told the troops to stand down.
That's right; I'm working for the NSF.
I'll meet you at the 747.
Didn't you hear me?
I ordered the militia to stand down.
We don't have much time.
I underestimated your abilities.
We don't have much time.
UNATCO will have a team here in a few minutes.
Everyone up to the President is at UNATCO's mercy as long as UNATCO controls the supply of Ambrosia.
We need to get the Ambrosia to Hong Kong.
He can help us synthesize it ourselves.
Your boss is my next objective.
Talk to Lebedev.
He can convince you.
Get on the plane.
We're almost ready to go.
The UN's about the only chance we've got these days.
If the U. S. spirals into another Civil War.
The whole project of world government -- going back to the League of Nations -- has been funded and manipulated mainly by wealthy bankers.
Rockefeller.
Get on board.
A UNATCO security squad will be here any minute.
The wealthy have always been the ones to profit from one-world government.
More later.
You better get moving.
The United Nations' secret goal -- well, this is David Rockefeller's description, from half a century ago: "the supernational sovereignty of an intellectual elite and world bankers.
" The UN was founded not to end war but to gradually dissolve national governments and replace them with a Globalist meritocracy.
Average people never benefit from government and business on a scale they can't even understand.
Go!
NSF TERRORIST Hold fire.
Your brother's at the 747.
Easy.
We don't want any trouble.
Hope you decide to join up.
Hurry up.
A UNATCO security squad won't be far behind.
Your brother makes some sense, doesn't he?
This was our last chance to do something about the plague.
We'll protect you from your UNATCO buddies.
Go.
Lebedev is waiting.
HAROLD Hey, you the guy the Feds sent?
I have something for you.
HAROLD Oh, Lebedev, all his people right now -- they're running around like ants thinking it's gonna be a raid.
Rich bastard probably has some kind of drug deal about to happen.
Anyway, filched this stuff from a guy's locker.
I'm selling a recoil weapon mod for 400.
I also have some shotgun shells I'll give you for 300.
(Gotta get rid of some gear.
Hold on.
) 2.
) HAROLD Appreciate it.
Think I'll start myself a little business.
What do they expect?
On my salary.
I wish I had something else - but that's it.
NYC - 747 AIRPLANE ALEX That's the last one.
Good work.
NEWSPAPER !
=!
==!
=== MIDNIGHT SUN ===!
==!
=!
Black Helicopters a "Concern" Says Senator As sightings of ominous "black helicopters" become increasingly common across the country, from Manhattan to the SoCal shores, many citizens have grown concerned that these gunships are actually a sign that troops may be preparing to mobilize for some unknown action.
"Certainly this concerns me," said Senator Harry Jarvis (D-Texas), a member of the Armed Services Committee.
"I intend to bring this up in our next committee meeting and ask some hard questions.
" UNATCO director Joseph Manderley was more skeptical.
"If black helicopters were really being used for 'covert operations,' then those responsible are doing a poor job of it.
" Manderley went on to say that UNATCO employed no such aircraft and declined to pursue the matter any further claiming that it detracted from the "serious nature of [our] mission.
" -- Joe Greene, Senior Staff Writer DATACUBE Juan, Decker let me know that Killian dropped off a canister recovered during the operation.
Decker wasn't sure what it was, but he put it in a suspension crate on board the plane, coded to 9905, figured you'd know what to do with it.
See you soon, Erin 1.
ANNA NAVARRE Excellent.
Precisely how a UNATCO agent must deal with a terrorist.
ANNA NAVARRE Mission complete.
A chopper is waiting outside to take you back to Liberty Island.
LEBEDEV I surrender!
LEBEDEV Easy now, Agent.
UNATCO has a policy against killing unarmed prisoners.
We have much to learn from each other.
The vaccine will be returned to the international authorities.
LEBEDEV Don't you want to hear why your brother came over to our side?
LEBEDEV You know he wouldn't betray UNATCO without a reason.
ANNA NAVARRE Good work.
Now finish the job.
He's an unarmed prisoner -- UNATCO policy protects him.
ANNA NAVARRE Terminate the prisoner, Agent.
If you are too afraid, you are ordered to return to base, on Manderley's authority.
There is a helicopter waiting.
I have the command here now.
You are worthless if you cannot obey a simple order.
This man will receive a speedy trial.
Congratulations, Agent.
You are one of us, after all.
I confess I had my doubts.
Your helicopter is waiting at the airfield.
We can say what we like in the paperwork.
That is how it is done.
Swift and quiet.
Good work.
Now get to the helicopter.
LEBEDEV The question you've got to ask -- I'm surprised you haven't -- is the obvious one: Who am I?
Who made me and for what purpose?
Get to the point.
ANNA NAVARRE Return to base, Agent Denton.
I will handle this.
LEBEDEV Your parents were murdered precisely because they could have told you the correct answer to that question.
LEBEDEV You didn't have parents.
The ones you knew were employees.
You were made by a cabal of technophiles so crazed for power that they would control not only governments and people but the chemistry of our bodies as well.
ANNA NAVARRE Leave us, Agent.
Now.
LEBEDEV Think bigger, Agent.
Think global.
ANNA NAVARRE You have disobeyed a direct order.
LEBEDEV Do you think it's an accident that the cure for the global plague is owned by a single corporation, and that it's kept so secret that only the tabloids dare print a story suggesting it exists?
That doesn't mean there's a conspiracy.
LEBEDEV But where does that corporation manufacture the cure, and where did your brother uncover the information that brought him over to our side?
LEBEDEV I can tell by the expression of your friend's face that she knows where I'm heading.
He was the one who was going to receive this shipment.
LEBEDEV I've said nothing that UNATCO won't find on this plane's computer.
But here's the secret.
ANNA NAVARRE Manderley will be disappointed in your insubordination.
That is what happens to a prisoner who tries to escape.
Go to the helicopter now, Agent Denton.
It is waiting at the airfield.
Get to the helicopter.
Manderley will want to see you.
I have never had this much difficulty with a trainee in my life.
I have told Manderley a thousand times: augmentations do not make an agent.
LEBEDEV I guess Paul must have convinced you.
We're alone.
If you have proof of a conspiracy, let's hear it.
LEBEDEV The question you've got to ask -- I'm surprised you haven't -- is the obvious one: Who am I?
Who made me and for what purpose?
Get to the point.
LEBEDEV Your parents were murdered precisely because they could have told you the correct answer to that question.
LEBEDEV You didn't have parents.
The ones you knew were employees.
You were made by a cabal of technophiles so crazed for power that they would control not only governments and people but the chemistry of our bodies as well.
LEBEDEV You're the proof.
You and Paul.
When you get back to UNATCO, pay attention.
Something's not right.
You're really working for a group of conspirators called Majestic 12.
LEBEDEV The U. N. and UNATCO are just a couple of their tools.
UNATCO has already occupied the airfield.
Just go through the motions and report back to Liberty Island.
I can't do anything for you here.
Be patient.
Someone will contact you, soon.
ALEX Jesus, JC, that was Agent Navarre.
She was out of line there, about the execution, but -- Oh, my God.
Manderley will have you shot.
We have to erase the log files.
I don't like this, but I'll protect you this time.
I guess you have to stand up for what you believe.
ALEX Jesus, JC, that was Agent Navarre.
I can't say I liked the way she operated, but -- Oh my God.
Manderley will have you shot.
We have to erase the log files.
I'll protect you this time.
You better have a good explanation.
GUNTHER HERMANN Proceed to the helipad.
We know your brother was here.
He is gone, but we will find him.
NYC - HANGAR TROOP All clear, sir.
We've disabled the security grid.
Agent Hermann is on his way.
This area is secure.
I heard you got Lebedev.
Way to go.
There's a chopper waiting at the helipad.
NYC - AIRFIELD GUNTHER HERMANN Manderley has assigned me the peacekeeping occupation of the airport.
I'm sure we can count on you.
GUNTHER HERMANN I want to be the one to execute Lebedev.
There was shooting on the 747.
I didn't see what happened.
Maybe Anna beat you to it.
GUNTHER HERMANN I will investigate.
She might need backup.
I already took him out.
GUNTHER HERMANN Yes.
Of course.
Congratulations, Agent.
Agent Navarre beat you to it.
GUNTHER HERMANN Yes.
Of course.
I will congratulate her.
At least we have one of you left.
He's been with UNATCO for years.
GUNTHER HERMANN Only one thing can happen when you break your oath to the Coalition.
I will be truthful.
I have requested the assignment of the Paul Denton assassination.
Again they ignore me.
Again they think they have a better punishment for a traitor than a shotgun to the head.
I will do it myself, even if they say to get him alive.
I was the one who warned them a year ago not to trust Paul Denton.
Do not make the same mistake as your brother.
The helicopter is waiting.
Agent Navarre and I will handle it from here.
Paul cannot hide from my infrared detectors.
JOCK Gunther told me about Paul.
Paul's been working for the NSF.
JOCK This is gonna shake up the Coalition, JC.
I don't know if you realize how important your brother was.
I'm not so worried about the Coalition.
JOCK U. N. officials will probably get involved.
You'll have to keep your head down if you're gonna come through this in one piece.
Sure you're ready to head back to base?
JOCK Sure thing.
Ready?
Let's move out.
JOCK Get in.
NYC - LIBERTY ISLAND JOCK Check in with Manderley so we can get out of here.
We gotta move.
It has to do with your brother.
I can't say anything else right now.
Just hurry up.
ALEX Manderley is pleased that you followed orders.
He wants to see you.
ALEX Manderley wants you to stop by his office.
Don't sweat it if he chews you out.
I think you made the right decision by not killing Lebedev.
TROOP This area is off-limits.
Hell of a long shift.
Sorry, Agent.
Only authorized personnel.
I have to ask you to step away from the barricade.
LLOYD Don't worry.
Manderley calmed down when he heard that they picked up Lebedev.
You'll be all right.
He's mainly upset about Paul.
You better get downstairs for a debriefing.
LLOYD We got the news.
Nobody really believes it.
Guess that goes to show we can't be too sure of anyone.
But I know you're different, JC.
I remember from the Academy.
You better get downstairs for a debriefing.
LLOYD Don't worry.
Manderley calmed down when he heard that Anna took care of Lebedev.
You'll be all right.
He's mainly upset about Paul.
You better get downstairs for a debriefing.
Paul Denton is armed, dangerous, and possesses intimate knowledge of UNATCO security protocols.
Security personnel are authorized to use LETHAL FORCE in his apprehension.
Any information regarding the whereabouts of Paul Denton should be reported to Central Security.
NYC - UNATCO HQ 1.
SCOTT Manderley's blowing his top.
You better go see him on the double.
SCOTT Manderley wants to see you.
You know the drill.
BERRY It's a question of who benefits society more.
COLLINS But who decides that?
YOU?
BERRY It's implicit.
COLLINS I think Paul just had a soft spot for the plague victims.
BERRY Every human institution is like a pyramid.
Those with ability are at the top; they are more important.
COLLINS Maybe it's the foundation that's important, and when the foundation's gone.
BERRY They make the decisions.
They keep the machine running.
Therefore, they must be protected first.
COLLINS I'm not saying Paul was right.
BERRY It's basic tactics.
Protect your command center, your air strips, your industrial zones.
COLLINS It's just.
the rationing.
Seems like the government could pay VersaLife to manufacture more.
BERRY Hello, Agent Denton.
Shame about Paul.
We'll miss him.
Heck of an operative.
COLLINS Hi, JC.
We were just talking about the Ambrosia situation, looking at it philosophically.
What a day, huh?
I guess Paul was too much of an idealist for this kind of work.
You've just gotta be able to compromise sometimes.
I keep hoping, though.
I keep thinking maybe he'll pull it off, whatever he's trying to do.
TROOP Your brother sure had us fooled.
Back to the same old routine.
We sure cleaned house tonight.
Heard you're shipping out to Hong Kong.
Good luck.
(I heard Anna got killed.
Amazing.
Never seen HQ so crowded during graveyard.
Don't sweat the business about the 747.
I heard they got Lebedev, anyway.
Whoever got Anna must have caught her by surprise.
) (A bullet to the head.
That's justice.
You catch on fast.
Agent Navarre is telling everybody you're the best recruit we've ever had.
We sure showed that rich bastard, Lebedev, didn't we?
) (Glad one of the Dentons is going to stick it out.
) JANICE REED I can't believe it, JC.
What got into Paul?
JANICE REED What a blow.
I don't know how we'll recover.
It's almost like losing a son.
Is Manderley available?
JANICE REED Go right in, JC.
He has a lot to discuss.
 Incidentally, I haven't been able to reach Jaime.
If you cross paths, could you mention that Walton Simons is looking for him?
I'm guessing he's in the break room.
JANICE REED You better not keep him waiting.
MANDERLEY Good, good.
Here's your op bonus as usual, 1000 for a flawless performance.
You might be interested to know that your tenacity has impressed some very important people.
MANDERLEY They have high hopes for you, JC.
You understand the importance of loyalty, don't you?
MANDERLEY Well, that's what seems to be missing in your brother.
I hope you'll understand why the Coalition has shut down Paul's augmentations and has activated the killswitch.
what?
MANDERLEY He's our enemy now.
He's gone, JC.
The Coalition wants you to understand that he's just another terrorist, like the ones that have died by your very hand this evening.
MANDERLEY Yes -- and you, too.
So take these orders seriously.
They're sending you to Hong Kong.
Will I get to see him again?
MANDERLEY Please.
Just get your equipment and meet our pilot Jock at the helipad.
Prove that they can trust you.
MANDERLEY It's critical that they trust you.
The only way to allay their suspicions of you, JC, is to actively work against your brother's allies.
I got you this opportunity; now it's up to you.
Move out, agent.
Grow up, JC.
MANDERLEY Here.
Take your op bonus.
No use splitting hairs this time.
MANDERLEY No shit.
What the hell happened in there?
A surprise attack.
MANDERLEY I find that hard to believe.
You're digging your own grave if you cover up for your brother.
I'm not covering up Paul, sir.
MANDERLEY Because he's gone, JC.
I hope you'll understand this.
The Coalition has shut down his augmentations and activated the killswitch.
what?
MANDERLEY Some very important officials have become nervous, nervous about Paul but also about you.
Can they really kill him -- by pressing a button?
MANDERLEY Yes -- and you, too.
So take these orders seriously.
They're sending you to Hong Kong.
Will I get to see him again?
MANDERLEY Please.
Just get your equipment and meet our pilot Jock at the helipad.
Prove that they can trust you.
MANDERLEY It's critical that they trust you.
The only way to allay their suspicions of you, JC, is to actively work against your brother's allies.
I got you this opportunity; now it's up to you.
Move out, agent.
MANDERLEY All right, Denton.
What the hell happened?
You were under direct orders -- MY orders!
He seemed worth interrogating.
MANDERLEY We don't give you enough information to make a call like that.
MANDERLEY You can turn in your weapons right now if you're going to be a smartass.
I deserve compensation.
MANDERLEY We don't have time for trifles.
Whatever.
Take it.
But it will be the last one.
Clearly monetary incentives don't work with you and Paul.
MANDERLEY Just shut up and listen for a second.
Christ, JC, this kind of behavior, not to mention your brother's defection, is making certain powerful people very nervous.
Nervous about you.
You understand the importance of loyalty, don't you?
Brace yourself for an ugly lesson, JC.
The Coalition has shut down Paul's augmentations and has activated the killswitch.
what?
MANDERLEY He's our enemy now.
He's gone, JC.
The Coalition wants you to understand that he's just another terrorist, like the ones that hav died by your very hand this evening.
MANDERLEY Yes -- and you, too.
So take these orders seriously.
They're sending you to Hong Kong.
Will I get to see him again?
MANDERLEY Please.
Just get your equipment and meet our pilot Jock at the helipad.
Prove that they can trust you.
MANDERLEY It's critical that they trust you.
The only way to allay their suspicions of you, JC, is to actively work against your brother's allies.
I got you this opportunity; now it's up to you.
Move out, agent.
76490 Subject: Excessive Force I understand that what we're doing here isn't kid's stuff, but I had an NSF trooper brought in to be treated prior to interrogation suffering from multiple second-degree burns consistent with repeated application of a riot prod at close range.
One or two shocks at most should have been enough to incapacitate almost any individual; this man had at least seven distinct burn wounds.
This is simply unacceptable, and violates not only the commonly practiced rules of engagement but my own medical ethics.
I understand that it is _not_ indictive of overall UNATCO policy, and would request that the incident be strenuously investigated and those responsible placed on suspension pending further investigation.
Dr.
76490 Subject: Agent Sherman I've dispatched Agent Sherman to assist you in resolving your current problems and to insure that MJ12 operations are not adversely affected.
I trust you'll extend him your complete cooperation.
NEWSPAPER UNATCO Nabs Terrorists in Hell's Kitchen Raid APR - New York A recent raid on UNATCO's Liberty Island headquarters by members of the National Seccessionist Forces (NSF) ended today when UNATCO troops, working in conjunction with local police, assaulted the warehouse in Hell's Kitchen where NSF units were regrouping.
While UNATCO casualties were low, few NSF members survived the action which UNATCO director Joseph Manderley termed a "suicidal last stand on their part.
" "We negotiated for hours," said Manderley, "and were prepared to make arrangements for their surrender into custody when an attack was initiated?
against us by the NSF.
We had no choice but to respond with force.
Obviously, a complete inquiry into this terrible, unfortunate series of events will be undertaken as soon as possible.
" JANICE REED I just can't get over it.
How could Paul do this to us?
He always seemed honest to me.
I guess anyone can be a terrorist, if you think about it.
SHANNON Then what'd you do?
TROOPER I chased them into the building.
SHANNON Weren't you scared?
TROOPER A little, but when I'm wearing this helmet I've learned to set aside the instincts of a civilian and be completely professional.
SHANNON They had assault guns!
TROOPER Tactically, I had the advantage.
It was important to act before the situation changed.
SHANNON How you troopers do it, I can't imagine.
TROOPER My vest caught a few slugs, but I had a job to do and I did it.
SHANNON Amazing.
TROOPER It was just blind luck that one of the terrorists was carrying orders from Lebedev.
SHANNON We never would have known about the airlift if you hadn't been so courageous.
TROOPER Oh, no, no.
Don't start that.
Just following orders.
SHANNON And we might never have recovered the shipment.
It all depended on you.
TROOPER Well.
I was happy to do my part.
SHANNON That's too bad about Paul.
The agency won't recover overnight.
I was talking to Private Newman.
TROOPER Agent Denton.
I was just telling Shannon about the operation.
Quite a success, wasn't it?
We sure appreciate you staying late and helping out.
TROOPER Glad one of the Dentons is going to stick it out.
9868 Subject: Come to my office We need to talk about the last mission.
In person, no infolink.
Come by my office after you've been debriefed by Manderley.
-alex- 1.
ALEX A lot of surprises this time.
Paul.
a terrorist.
Wow.
I hope that changes his mind.
ALEX What the HELL were you thinking, JC?
I had no choice.
ALEX They'll have you killed.
They won't even blink an eye.
ALEX Well, watch what you say around Manderley.
Let's leave it at that.
I've been in contact with Gunther, by the way.
No sign of your brother at the airport.
I don't know what to think anymore.
ALEX A lot of surprises this time.
Paul.
a terrorist.
Wow.
I don't know what to think anymore.
ALEX I wonder what it is he found out, why he'd defect.
ALEX Wild stuff, huh?
I'd like to hear what he has to say.
If you hear from him -- or if you find out where he is -- don't worry about the infolink.
I'll erase the archives.
ALEX Worth hearing him out.
I've never known Paul to make a mistake.
Manderley was tuned in when you reached the 747.
It really is all over for Paul.
I know it can't be easy for you, not knowing where he is.
Just hang in there.
I'll let you know if I find out something.
Paul never was gung-ho aggressive like some agents.
I guess I know where he's coming from.
I've armchair-quarterbacked my share of search and destroys.
Turns your stomach sometimes.
If you need me, I'll be tuned in.
Just holler.
SAM CARTER How are you holding up?
I completed the mission objectives.
SAM CARTER You were ordered to assassinate a man in cold blood.
That must have been difficult.
SAM CARTER It's a shame when a difference of opinion gets somebody killed.
That's all I have to say about that.
Maybe the biggest questions can only be answered by the greatest of conflicts.
SAM CARTER Let's hope not, or we're on the brink of another world war.
Speaking of which, tell me what you need.
I'll load you up.
I don't know who to trust anymore.
SAM CARTER No one blames you about Lebedev.
You refused an order to kill in cold blood -- precisely your duty as a UNATCO peacekeeper.
SAM CARTER He'll cool down.
The important thing is that you obey your conscience.
SAM CARTER Tell me what you need, and I'll load you up.
SAM CARTER A man of tactics.
I like that.
SAM CARTER Working in close, huh?
Takes guts.
SAM CARTER You learn fast -- I'm impressed.
SAM CARTER Like the big guns, huh?
Hang on to this baby.
It's the last one I've got.
SAM CARTER I hear they're shipping you out to Hong Kong.
Hate to see you go.
Watch your back around the Triads.
It's a shame about Paul.
He was one of the best.
Stop moping around, soldier.
I said move out.
20892 Subject: Augmentation Shipment Augmentation canister 10B (MJID-9138YU0983) has been shipped via suspension crate to UNATCO HQ for your distribution to nanotechnologically augmented agents under your care and should arrive within 24 hours.
If you do not receive this shipment within 24 hours, contact UNATCO MedDirectorate.
Canister 10B contains ROM modules that encode either the Regeneration or Energy Shield torso augmentation.
The Regeneration augmentation will add programmable polymerase to existing augmentations, directing the structural repair of tissues and organs damaged in combat conditions.
The Energy Shield augmentation will construct heat- and electricity-absorbing polyanilene capacitors below the skin, reducing damage received from flame, electrical, or plasma injuries.
For detailed information, refer to the Nano-Augmentation Guidelines you have already received.
20892 Subject: Re: Excessive Force Thank you for bringing this to my attention Dr.
Reyes.
If acurate, this mistreatment obviously violates any number of rules in the UNATCO charter and will be thorougly investigated.
However, the situation is currently very fluid, and I would ask you to refrain from speculating further until we have an opportunity to ascertain all the relevant facts.
JM >I understand that what we're doing here isn't >kid's stuff, but I had an NSF trooper brought in >to be treated prior to interrogation suffering >from multiple second-degree burns consistent >with repeated application of a riot prod at close >range.
One or two shocks at most should have >been enough to incapacitate almost any >individual; this man had at least seven distinct >burn wounds.
20892 Subject: Best Guess Thanks for the e-mail -- sorry I haven't been to reply before now, but we've got our hands full here.
Everyone's working 24 by 7 trying to isolate the Gray Death vectors.
While things haven't been too bad down here in Atlanta (yet), the reports I'm getting back from field operatives in NYC aren't as optimistic.
I'll send you the latest data as soon as I have it, but let me be perfectly honest: the projections aren't good.
Initial casualties could be up to 10% of the current population, with another 3-5% mortally affected by secondary contagions.
If you've got any place to head on vacation, I'd go.
Until then, if any of your people come into contact with this stuff I'd say Level 3 quarantine is your best option.
I've got to run, but I'll let you know as soon as all the data is in -- Francis JAIME REYES What kind of pain?
A sharp burning.
Almost electrical.
JAIME REYES How's your bioelectric level?
I like to stay prepared.
JAIME REYES That's probably it right there.
Free radicals.
You should charge your systems only when they've been significantly drained.
JAIME REYES It's a lot like an electric razor.
If you leave it plugged in all the time, the battery loses its zero point.
Just watch your levels.
Thanks, Doctor.
JAIME REYES Let me know how it goes.
JAIME REYES I did my best.
You're looking good.
JAIME REYES They just dropped off a few liters of the Ambrosia you recovered, by the way.
I want you to know: we will not let your brother's activity cast its shadow on you.
I'm grateful for that.
I just wish we'd found out sooner.
We have you to take his place.
JAIME REYES Well, no one on staff's gonna catch Gray Death this month.
What do you think about that?
JAIME REYES So it's true.
He went over to the NSF.
JAIME REYES What?
You?
Work for the NSF?
Did he really expect you to believe that UNATCO's part of some global conspiracy?
Maybe he'll get the message.
I spared his boss, Juan Lebedev.
I ignored the mission objective of killing his boss, Juan Lebedev, but Agent Navarre intervened.
JAIME REYES What did Manderley say?
No big deal.
JAIME REYES I'm surprised he didn't fire you on the spot.
I'm on my way to Hong Kong.
JAIME REYES Good.
Maybe you'll find out what got into Paul.
JAIME REYES You better get to his office.
He's not going to like that one bit.
JAIME REYES If there's a conspiracy it's at VersaLife; they're the ones making money off the plague.
Whatever his politics, I'm still going to miss your brother.
Tell him that if you see him.
I don't think it will be long before VersaLife steps up production of the vaccine.
Looks like the cleaner bots were busy while I was gone.
Busy day, but as you can see I got to everyone.
I can finally start on some paperwork.
As usual, take what you need.
Yes, it's true.
I have augmentations like yours.
We deal with every sort of natural and unnatural disaster you can imagine.
You work behind a desk.
No, I'm not.
That's because we have a situation here in New York.
I got to my position because I can fix things.
You will see shortly, because as you have probably noticed yourself this agency is broken and needs an overhaul.
I am still collecting data.
We recaptured the shipment.
It's the softer elements I am after.
What are you, Angel/0A?
I'll wait for the memo.
Carry on.
I said no more questions.
I have good reason to hold back the announcement.
Dismissed, Agent!
Leave me alone.
Settle down, Agent.
Watch it.
You're not in the academy anymore.
You don't know who I am, do you?
TROOP Not much happening down here, Agent.
We had to execute the prisoners.
They wouldn't talk.
Simons shot one of them himself.
Now THAT'S somebody you don't want to piss off.
All the same, this post is a little more exciting when we've got someone in custody.
Take a look around if you want.
SCOTT So long, Agent.
Wish I was shipping out for Hong Kong.
LLOYD We'll miss you, Agent.
Strange you were reassigned so soon.
after only one day.
You know what they say about China, right?
That's where UNATCO sends people they aren't sure of.
Kind of what Central Asia used to be for the Russians.
Don't get mixed up with the wrong Triad.
Well, have a good trip.
JOCK I'm taking you to New York.
JOCK Your brother's in trouble.
You need to meet him in Hell's Kitchen at the apartment.
JOCK I'll let him speak for himself.
He just wanted me to get you to the hotel.
NEW YORK - HELL'S KITCHEN JOCK Your brother's hurt pretty bad.
You'll find him at the apartment.
If he can walk, get him to come with you.
I can pick you guys up in Battery Park.
He doesn't have much time.
Be discreet.
He doesn't want any trouble with UNATCO.
NEWSPAPER Ten Dead in Gang Slaying APR - Hong Kong, China The simmering gang war in Hong Kong exploded onto the streets overnight when ten were killed during an attack on a local establishment, the Lucky Money Club.
Located in the Wan Chai district, the Lucky Money Club has generally been associated with organized criminal activity.
Eyewitness reports were few, but local authorities suspect that members of the Luminous Path Triad may have been involved in the attack.
All ten victims had extensive criminal records.
Each was killed with traditional weapons, their throats savagely cut in an ancient ritual typically employed as a punishment for betrayal.
SALLY Hey, Mr.
UNATCO man.
You guys goin' after JoJo?
SALLY The whole street's a UNATCO security zone.
That's why they sent me down here.
They're gonna make that punk out and no one's gonna miss him.
SALLY They said go to Battery Park, but I wanna be here to see JoJo hit the curb.
He's always giving me trouble.
Now JoJo's moved in on the Rentons.
That ain't right.
I left him on his back in the hotel.
SALLY Really?
That's it?
SALLY Does that mean the evacuation's over?
SALLY I gotta use the street to get home.
They got JoJo.
What more do they need to do?
Man, I can't believe that guy's dead.
I've been dreaming about this day.
I can't wait to tell Janey.
Thanks, man.
Really.
NYC - SMUGGLER'S LAIR SMUGGLER Tell Paul he better lay low for the next few hours.
Now what do you want?
(This is what I've got.
SMUGGLER Hey, about your brother.
If he's in Hell's Kitchen, he's a sitting duck.
SMUGGLER UNATCO's got this place nailed down.
One thing they can't stand: an agent gone AWOL.
What do you have for me?
SMUGGLER I have an extended clip that will fit most handguns and rifles for 1500 credits, a range weapon-mod for 2400, and a napalm canister that fits most flamethrowers for 2250.
SMUGGLER The best thing is to stay out of UNATCO's way.
1230 Subject: Need Passage You met me once when doing business with Lebedev; I got the impression you were a professional then, so I'm going to try and handle this professionally now.
I need passage out of this city -- underneath the official radar -- for me and two other people.
We're prepared to keep our mouths shut, and we're prepared to pay.
We don't care how, and we don't care where: Hong Kong, Lagos, Paris if you can, but anywhere that's outside of the country.
I've hacked this terminal with an account that should be active for the next 24 hours; I'll check it periodically for your response.
In truth, the whole >idea that Crystal Palace was HQ to NORAD >was a brilliant deception, as a secret >Soviet-American pact Come on, Jimmy -- in her 2013 book "The Wheels Come Off," Ophelia Carter persuasively demonstrated that there could have been no "Soviet-American pact," as America had already sold-out to the Grays; far from being shams, the polio and influenza outbreaks of the later 20th century were merely test runs in a larger governmental biowarfare program that used its own populace as guinea pigs.
Next time, get your facts straight.
Shirow Yoshitaka "When everything is permitted, nothing is free.
" NYC - UNDERWORLD TAVERN FILBEN Here's a tip for free: take cover.
UNATCO's about to do a raid.
All they said was, "Clear out; we're coming in.
" Good to see you UNATCO boys know how to clean up this town.
Someone should take care of him.
) I hear UNATCO's got a team going over the old NSF hideout.
Probably put me out of business.
By morning UNATCO'll know everything there is to know about the rebels.
I bet I wake up tomorrow and I don't have a job.
JOE GREENE Perfect.
Someone who can tell me about the raid.
JOE GREENE Why are they closing down the street and shutting down the bar?
What could be worse than the fighting earlier this evening?
JOE GREENE You're the investigator.
You tell me.
JOE GREENE If I knew him, I wouldn't have to question you, now would I?
Just answer one thing: why are they closing the bar and clearing out the streets?
What could be worse than the fighting earlier this evening?
How about I interview you?
Tell me what you've dug up on the raid.
JOE GREENE What's the matter?
Did they leave you out of the loop?
JOE GREENE Must be a high-level operation.
I'd sure like to know what it is.
I'll find out on my own.
JOE GREENE Place is almost empty.
I could sure use better contacts at UNATCO.
Let me know if you hear anything.
JORDAN Hey, you know the Rentons, right?
JORDAN JoJo Fine, a punk from around here; thinks he's going to use the hotel as his next base.
He worked for the NSF.
JORDAN Far as I can tell, UNATCO doesn't give a damn about JoJo or the Rentons.
Bigger fish to fry, I suppose.
What do you need?
JORDAN Really?
He's dead?
JORDAN I'm just glad to see that someone gives a damn about the Rentons.
UNATCO seems to think they have bigger fish to fry.
JORDAN Drink up.
We're about to close.
So they brought you over for the raid?
That's surprising.
JORDAN Oh.
Well, then you probably want to stay out of the crossfire.
I just assumed.
So what do you need?
Ten credits, anything in the house.
Last call.
Tell me about this raid.
JORDAN Best thing in these situations is to clear out.
That's what we should've done earlier during the fighting.
JORDAN Agent Denton, I know who you are, and I know your brother.
You should leave the city.
Trust me.
JORDAN 1.
Shoot.
Suppose I can stay open a minute longer.
Well, I don't hear shooting yet.
What's it going to do to you?
to know.
The nanites can be programmed for exponential growth.
You know Jock?
You're the only that can help.
I need to send the NSF distress code.
UNATCO tracked Lebedev to the other NSF bases -- and to Silhouette in France.
UNATCO takes.
payoffs.
Silhouette -- the other terrorist groups, they're our allies.
Let's go.
Silhouette -- the other terrorist groups, they're our allies.
I killed Agent Navarre, and I'll join you against UNATCO -- but I want proof.
Down in the basement, protected by boobytraps, a datacube sits on the edge of a table: my report to the militia leaders.
Here, I have a photograph of the building.
It's a couple of blocks to the west, behind the bar.

my friend, Chad, for example, the leader of Silhouette.
Be ready to leave for Hong Kong when I get back.
You sure you're all right?
What kills me is just.
A lot of things are starting to make sense.
You remember Mom and Dad?
He said they were employees of the United Nations.
They've opened up the street behind the bar.
The NSF base is on the other side of the tunnel.
Silhouette's not much to speak of militarily, but you might call them the brains of the resistance movement.
They go after public opinion.
If it wasn't for Silhouette there'd be a half- dozen meaningless civil wars going on instead of any kind of worldwide struggle.
Ironically, to fight the one-worlders, we ourselves have to become a global organization.
It's been easier than we expected.
Average people are beginning to wake up to the fact that bigger isn't better.
A few bureaucrats in New York can't make good decisions for New Jersey, let alone Paris or a village in China.
That kind of centralization can only lead to precisely the debacle that the UN has become.
Somehow the notion of unalienable liberty got lost.
It's really become a question of what liberties will the state assign to individuals -- or, rather, what liberties we will have the strength to cling to.
It's only a matter of time before someone clever and ambitious figures out that the tools of dictatorship have been ready-made by well-meaning governments all over the world.
UNATCO, for instance.
A global response to a common problem.
Looks good on paper, but a global military force is hard to keep accountable.
UNATCO's already in the wrong hands; I don't know whose hands, but you'll find records of outside influence if you dig around the NSF headquarters.
You better get moving.
BOOK The Man Who Was Thursday by G. K. Chesterton ".
First of all, what is it really all about?
What is it you object to?
You want to abolish Government?
" said Gregory, opening the eyes of a fanatic.
"We do not only want to upset a few despotisms and police regulations; that sort of anarchism does exist, but it is a mere branch of the Nonconformists.
We dig deeper and we blow you higher.
We wish to deny all those arbitrary distinctions of vice and virtue, honour and treachery, upon which mere rebels base themselves.
The silly sentimentalists of the French Revolution talked of the Rights of Man!
We hate Rights as we hate Wrongs.
We have abolished Right and Wrong.
" "And Right and Left," said Syme with a simple eagerness, "I hope you will abolish them too.
They are much more troublesome to me.
" SANDRA He's NOT my boyfriend.
GILBERT Then what is he?
SANDRA He's JoJo.
GOD.
GILBERT I don't like him staying in my hotel.
SANDRA Then EVICT him.
GILBERT How'd you get mixed up with someone like that in the first place?
SANDRA Jesus, Dad, do you expect ME to do it?
It's YOUR hotel.
GILBERT I just don't want any trouble.
SANDRA Then get used to it.
JoJo's the boss on this street.
Nothing anybody can do about it.
Mind your own business.
I'm talking to my father.
You better not go upstairs.
SANDRA None of your business.
GILBERT One of the neighbourhood thugs, JoJo.
He thinks he owns the block.
Just tell me where he is.
GILBERT I get some rough people in here, but this guy.
I don't know; he's jumpy.
I'll take care of it.
GILBERT Can you help me out?
I could really use a gun for protection.
GILBERT Thanks.
That'll help.
SANDRA You aren't gonna shoot nobody.
Jesus.
GILBERT I hope I don't have to use this thing.
SANDRA You're gonna get him killed.
SANDRA You weren't gonna shoot nobody anyway.
Jesus.
GILBERT What am I going to do?
GILBERT Tell that to the gangsters.
SANDRA He wasn't gonna stand up to JoJo, anyway.
GILBERT He pays off the cops, so there's nothing I can do.
JOJO Oh, you bad!
Keep out of the way.
You deaf?
JOJO Wha'chu jus' lyin' around for, girl?
SANDRA What?
JOJO I tol'ju -- bar rush is MONEY.
It's BUSINESS.
SANDRA In a minute.
GILBERT That's my daughter you're talking to.
JOJO I already explained it, old man.
Your girl?
She needs me.
She don't got an education, and all you got to give her is a job killin' rats.
GILBERT This is MY hotel.
I want you to leave.
JOJO Next thing is I explain it a lo bruto.
Is that what you want?
SANDRA I'll go already.
Leave him alone.
GILBERT That's it.
I've had it.
GILBERT I don't care what happens to me.
Stay away from my little girl!
GILBERT .
Oh, Jesus.
Sandra.
Oh, Sandra.
SANDRA Oh my God!
Daddy.
GILBERT You saved my life.
SANDRA Are you NUTS?
You almost got yourself killed.
GILBERT You can relax now.
No more getting bossed around.
SANDRA No thanks to YOU.
If it wasn't for JC, we'd both be dead.
GILBERT You want to go through your whole life with guys like JoJo?
Is that it?
SANDRA God.
I can't STAND this place.
SANDRA I'm LEAVING.
I'm getting on a bus and going west until I run out of money or get to the ocean, whichever comes first.
GILBERT Come on, Sandra.
I just wanted to help.
SANDRA I mean it.
I'm leaving.
Around here, all you can be is a bum.
I'm not gonna live like that!
Think I'll go to Eugene, Oregon.
( JOJO Hol' up, bro'.
You Denton, right?
JOJO Tell your UNATCO compadres: get out my hotel.
JOJO First thing, look around.
Mr.
Renton and his daughter got early retirement.
JOJO You want to live here, thass cool, but I don't want no raids.
An' if they think they gonna get Paul, huh-uh.
They need a warrant, an' he ain't here anyway.
Yeah, I know Paul.
I haven't seen him.
UNATCO can't come in here without a warrant.

guy things he's messing with me, but.
Someday, gonna get out of this place.
Gonna get me a nice coat like that.
) NYC - 20TH STREET WAREHOUSE TROOP I thought they were shipping you off to Hong Kong.
What's going on here?
TROOP Damage control.
The NSF got their hands on some pretty sensitive material.
TROOP Nothing we can't clean up.
TROOP Go right ahead.
I don't care what they say; Paul was a great agent.
I hate to see him go.
By morning, you won't even know the terrorists were here.
We still haven't found what we're looking for.
Got to make my rounds, Agent.
We think there's a secret level below the base, but no one's sure.
Glad you could lend a hand.
The guys inside know more about what's going on.
If you're unable to hack the computers up there, you'll need the instructions and account information Lebedev sent me.
One of our agents, who tried to send the signal but got run off, left the datacube in a secret area below the garage; look for a hatch under some boxes.
A computer on the third floor can unlock the hatch.
TROOP 1 You're not cleared to be up here, Agent.
Crime Scene Unit personnel only.
We will report this intrusion to Walton Simons.
This floor is off-limits.
Where do you think you're going, Agent?
We're supposed to defend this area with force, but I guess we'll let you pass.
You better have a good reason for being up here.
TROOP 2 Howdy, Agent.
Guess you have the command now.
Just taking a break.
Maybe you can cut through the malarkey and get us out of here before morning.
Don't know what they expected to gain from doing that.
All a bunch of nonsense.
I'm glad we cleaned this place out.
They were riling people up with propaganda.
TROOP 3 Just keeping busy.
We've got a lot of work to do.
Turns out your brother was stealing balance sheets from UNATCO's accounting department.
The civilian authorities will take over tomorrow.
I can't imagine what the rebels thought they'd find.
A 10,000-credit toilet seat?
The NSF sure put up a fight this time.
Pardon me, sir.
Someone should check out the roof.
I think we found all of the data.
DATACUBE All: I've released halon gas into the computer room to prevent any fires breaking out in case of assault -- obviously, anyone entering the room unprotected will suffocate.
Use a hazmat suit, or pump out the gas before entering if you need to perform any maintenance.
DATACUBE Paul, I'm sending you this message from the plane -- UNATCO has been even more ruthless than we'd feared, and the reports I'm receiving now are that our people are being slaughtered in the tunnels; it's probably only a matter of time before I'm captured or executed, and I don't doubt that they'll kill everyone they can back at our headquarters.
If you find this, you must get a message out to our people.
Align the communications dishes using the satellite dish control computer -- the login is MCOLLINS and the password is REVOLUTION.
Nearby is the actual communications console; log in using NAPOLEON and the same password, and a coded warning will automatically be bounced to everyone on our network.
I can hear the gunshots.
They've reached the plane.
I'm sorry I won't be able to thank you in person -- you've done much for the peoples of the world.
Look around in that room; you should find records of the bribes Manderley has been taking.
Then get to the roof, JC.
I need you to send that distress signal.
DATACUBE Juan, I have a feeling that -- one way or another -- my time here is short, and I think my loyalties are already being questioned.
The inevitable complications from the raid are only going to raise more doubts, so I've pulled together everything I could access without raising additional suspicions.
Attached you should find information linking Simons, Manderley, and other high- ranking members of UNATCO through covert communications and a series of monetary payments.
If you check the records, over c10,000 a month is being placed into an anonymous Zurich account routinely accessed by Manderley -- the payments were slick, being dispersed through a number of shell companies and orbital banks, but they all eventually originate with companies in which Simons has a controlling interest if you follow the trail far enough back.
I also managed to document some of UNATCO's less than shining operations, including their role in the Statue bombing.
Most disturbing is further verification of Tracer's suspicion that UNATCO may not only be involved with the distribution of Ambrosia, but also with the Gray Death in some way.
I've given a copy of all this same material to Jock with orders to deliver it to Tracer if things get as bad as I think they might.
Be careful.
-P DATACUBE Young: I've got to assist our forces at the airfield, but I've prepped the security grid here in case of attack -- if UNATCO does breach our perimeter, log in as TJEFFERSON with the password NEWREVOLUTION and activate it immediately.
It should buy you some time, at least long enough to get to the airfield.
I know Erin is looking forward to seeing you again.
Don't disappoint her.
-Decker TROOP 1 .
but what's it for?
TROOP 2 That's a dumb question.
TROOP 1 No, really.
What does UNATCO need with that kind of money?
TROOP 2 Just look around.
Think UNATCO'd be handing out assault guns if funding was left to the UN?
TROOP 1 Well.
TROOP 2 The uniforms.
If it wasn't for Simons, we'd still be wearing those little white helmets.
TROOP 1 Yeah.
TROOP 2 He's what they call a philanthropist.
TROOP 1 Axe this file?
TROOP 2 Yeah, all of it.
The whole directory.
TROOP 1 What I want to know is what he gets in return.
TROOP 2 Don't you know what a philanthropist is?
TROOP 1 Yeah, like Nietzsche.
TROOP 2 No, a philanthropist.
Giving to charity.
TROOP 1 Oh.
TROOP 2 That's why he volunteered for FEMA, to help out after hurricanes and that kind of thing.
TROOP 1 That's a lot of money to just give away.
TROOP 2 Some people are just good, you know?
Good to the bone.
TROOP 1 You shouldn't be in here.
This area is restricted by order of Walton Simons.
I'm going to have to write you up, Agent.
TROOP 2 We're in the middle of something.
We can't work with you here.
Leave us alone.
You even reached Silhouette in France.
Come back to the apartment and let's clear out of New York.
Walton Simons here.
What an expensive mistake you turned out to be.
I ordered the troops to kill you, because frankly I don't have the patience to wait for one of those damn killswitches work.
Come one.
UNATCO's after both of us.
He'll be able to get his people to their base in the Paris catacombs.
Did you find the records we collected on that weasel, Walton Simons?
The instant I sent the signals, he ordered the troopers to hunt us down.
Why does FEMA have authority over UNATCO?
I thought FEMA was a domestic agency for flood relief and that sort of thing.
He's part of a secret organization.
Majestic-12.
We don't know much more than the name.
They plan to use FEMA as part of a scheme to shut down the U. S.
government.
MAN IN BLACK (O. S. ) Agent JC Denton.Please put your weapons and step into the hallway.
Out the window.
We'll meet Jock in Battery Park.
You go ahead.
The code to the gate they installed at the subway station is 6282.
MAN IN BLACK (O. S. ) Open up!
Run.
I'll hold them off.
Hurry!
Go out the bedroom window.
Take care of yourself.
Thanks for your help.
Now get out of here.
I'll have Smuggler get me to Hong Kong; he owes me a favor.
You meet Jock in Battery Park.
You can trust Jock.
Go.
You don't have much time.
BULLETINS Terrorist Attack at La Guardia The recent terrorist attack on Liberty Island and the resultant reprisal by UNATCO forces appears to have spilled over onto a private airfield at La Guardia Airport where fighting is still ongoing at last report.
All inbound flights are being rerouted to John F.
Kennedy International Airport, while outbound flights have been suspended until further notice.
Look for further updates as more information becomes available.
Already strained to the breaking point by the influx of patients suffering from the "Gray Death," the donation was "a gift from God," according to Ray Cobo, Deputy Director of CHANY.
"This couldn't have come at a better time and should allow us to dramatically improve our services.
" "It was the right thing to do," commented Page.
"When I was in New York recently, the suffering that I saw on the streets was unconscionable.
Thomas Aquinas, a personal icon, worked his entire life to ease such terrible pain.
This is the very least I could do.
" NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN JOCK JC, I've got to take off.
UNATCO troops are moving into the park.
I'll land again when it looks safe.
SALLY They tryna kill you or something?
You better get out of here!
Run!
BUM 1 .
no escape.
It's already too late for you.
Came at us with everything they had, cut us to pieces even before we could take Washington state.
They have us outnumbered.
Some of us'll be heroes; the rest of us will walk away on both legs.
They have you, sonny.
They have you this time.
BUM 2 I heard shooting!
I'd stay out of the streets if I was you.
Don't run from a cop; it just makes it worse when they catch you.
I'm just minding my own business.
Cops are sure out for blood tonight.
You better stay away from the apartment on the second floor.
That guy's packin', and he doesn't like people messing with his stuff.
Back off, buddy.
DATACUBE ONE WORLD BANKING 3 Plaza One, New York "The future of banking is One World.
" Mr.
Renton, As requested, we've provided you with a copy of your bank account and PIN number.
We appreciate your business and look forward to answering any other questions you might have.
Account #: 487659 Pin #: 249087 Please keep this record in secure location to prevent unauthorized use of your account.
This block is about to heat up again.
Clear the streets.
No exceptions.
We're telling everyone to leave the neighborhood.
This one may get out of control.
Keep moving, Agent.
This area has been declared a UNATCO security zone.
Please comply with the evacuation notice.
NYC - BATTERY PARK ( BUM .
work of the devil.
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will stretch out mine hand upon the Philistines.
And they shall know my name is the Lord when I raise my vengeance upon them.
) ( SICK MAN Get lost.
I said get lost.
) ( BILLY I'm staying right here, just like they said.
Don't worry.
I won't get in the way.
I wish they'd let me back in the fort.
They're worried for no reason.
I don't think the terrorists are coming back.
Everybody says the terrorists are gonna hide out for a long time.
It's getting cold.
) ( SICK WOMAN .
no, it’s my kidneys.
SICK MAN It don’t GET into the kidneys.
SICK WOMAN They’re infected.
I can feel it.
SICK MAN Oh, stop your moaning.
SICK WOMAN They are.
Every cell in my body.
SICK MAN Viruses are specific.
They target certain parts.
SICK WOMAN It feels like a fire in my gut.
SICK MAN I think you got a brain infection.
That’s all.
SICK WOMAN You’re welcome to rest here awhile, if you’re not afraid of the Gray Death.
SICK MAN No, he can’t.
We were here first.
SICK WOMAN Sorry, I guess you’ll have to go.
SICK MAN Get lost.
I said get lost.
) ANNA NAVARRE We had such hopes for you and your brother.
It would seem you are not as loyal as we expected.
ANNA NAVARRE We are thinking the same thought.
(I have him!
) GUNTHER HERMANN There is no escape.
You will surrender.
GUNTHER HERMANN Not any better.
They expect us to take you alive.
Paul is already dead.
(They expect us to take you and Paul alive.
) 1.
1 GUNTHER HERMANN Now we will find out what you know.
2 GUNTHER HERMANN You are the one who killed Agent Navarre.
Now you will confess and pay the price.
(You are the one who killed Agent Navarre.
I know it!
) 2.
GUNTHER HERMANN Good.
JOCK I’m not leaving until I know Paul’s okay.
SECRET MJ 12 FACILITY ( ANNA NAVARRE I came to watch you die.
I've got at least twenty hours left.
ANNA NAVARRE I was hoping the killswitch would have started.
ANNA NAVARRE You won't be able to hide it for long.
ANNA NAVARRE Same as anything that malfunctions.
Same as you.
) DAEDALUS I need you to escape.
I can cut power to the door only a few seconds without being detected.
Get ready.
Transmitting the floorplan.
All of your equipment has been stored in the armory to the south.
The body of Paul Denton is in the laboratory to the north.
Proceed to Paul Denton and retrieve the datavault from his body.
(Transmitting the floorplan.
All of your equipment has been stored in the armory to the south.
Paul Denton is alive in the laboratory to the north but has a damaged infolink.
You must inform him of the escape.
) You are beneath the nanotech lab.
You are beneath the Command Center.
I will not provide the exit code at this time.
Go to the medical area.
DATACUBE Lieutenant Jackson: A failed intrusion attempt into LabNet has unfortunately scrambled other key systems, requiring most of the security grid to be reset.
Until the grid is fully restored, the detention block door code has been reset to 4089 while _all_ detention cells have been reset to 4679.
You will be notified when the situation has been fully resolved.
Agent Sherman MIGUEL You're the spy they caught, right?
(I think he was captured, too.
) 1.
MIGUEL I heard a guard say that you're the only one who lived.
MIGUEL I don't know what to say.
MIGUEL You're definitely not the only prisoner; I heard noises down the hall.
Maybe I can find him.
MIGUEL Let's get out of here.
I smuggled in a knife -- and a medkit, too.
You want the medkit?
MIGUEL What do you say?
I think we can make it.
MIGUEL Lead the way.
Now what?
MIGUEL Make a run for it.
I've got you covered.
You lead.
I'm ready for business.
Let's go!
We're not there yet.
Stay alert.
MIGUEL Let me know when the coast is clear.
Be careful.
I'll keep my eyes peeled.
I'll handle the guards.
MIGUEL Well.
all right.
I'm gonna make a break for it.
I think I know the way out.
DATACUBE Here's that greasel dissection chart you wanted.
-- Dr.
Verne BOOK Lab Notes, Dr.
Moreau Week of 4/12 to 4/18 Sunday, 4/12: LabNet accounts are disabled.
Rumor is possible infiltration attempt by Silhouette required redistribution of secure network resources.
Will transcribe lab notes by hard until IS has restored access.
Monday, 4/13: Greasels displaying an increasing level of antipathy towards lab personnel.
Noted to Dr.
Verne who increased dosage of succinylcholine from 15cc to 32cc.
Wednesday, 4/15: IS promises that LabNet accounts will be restored by Friday; new login is "dmoreau" with password "raptor".
Thursday, 4/16: Dr.
Cairns typically absent minded; forgot his protective gear when handling greasel and received a dose of venomous spit in the face.
Fortuitous opportunity to study effects on human nervous system which included impaired coordination and vision.
SCIENTIST 1 Sounds like a target-site mismatch.
SCIENTIST 2 The sequence came straight out of VersaLife’s software.
SCIENTIST 1 Did you double-check the endonuclease?
I’ve seen the tethering fail completely in vivo.
SCIENTIST 2 The damn program should just work.
SCIENTIST 1 Cytoplasm isn’t exactly a eutactic environment.
Certain operations just fail.
SCIENTIST 2 How are we supposed to reconfigure an entire immune system if we’re constantly reinventing basic recombination technology?
SCIENTIST 1 If a few endonuclease molecules are the worst of our troubles.
SCIENTIST 2 I’ll tell you what’s worse: the raptor-chickens from Hong Kong.
I’ve never seen a more perfect example of gonzo science.
SCIENTIST 1 I’ve verified the results.
Absolutely no response from their immune systems.
SCIENTIST 2 Mark my words: before the year is out, someone will make a nice midnight snack for one of those things.
SCIENTIST 1 Oh, Richard.
SCIENTIST 2 If we really want to solve the problem, we should make 10,000 clones of one of the Dentons, each with a different sequence knocked out.
SCIENTIST 1 Speaking of sequence, shouldn’t you be getting back to work?
SCIENTIST 2 Just dreaming aloud.
SCIENTIST 1 I'm in the middle of something.
I said I'm not getting involved.
Don't make me call the guards.
Stay away from that.
You’ll release the greasels!
SCIENTIST 2 Keep us out of this.
We don’t want any trouble.
JCDenton.
so you really exist.
DATACUBE Agent Sherman: As requested, the patient has been moved to the Surgery Ward for immediate salvage of his datavault.
If you wish to observe the progress of the operation in person, the door code for surgery is 0199; or, if you wish to view the operation remotely, you may use the temporary account we've created for you: login "psherman" and password "Raven".
Please let me know if myself or my staff can provide you with any further assistance.
JM DATACUBE MJ12 Cyberinformation Warfare Division Your request for: LOGIN/PASSWORDS was completed at 18:34:23.
ajacobson - calvo anavarre - scryspc ghermann - zeitgeist JCD - bionicman jmanderley - knight_killer jreed - redshoes jreyes - amigo klloyd - target scarter - antique MJ12CWD * "Ipsa scientia potestas est.
2290 Subject: Karkian Bio Eval Dr.
Moreau, I must request yet again that you forward me the results of your study on greasel venom toxicity with reference to the karkian neurological cultures I have previously provided you with so that I can conclude my bio evaluation.
This delay on your part could be construed as a lack of enthusiasm for our research goals.
Sincerely, Dr.
9981 Subject: Re: Armory Code Changed >In the wake of a failed electronic intrusion >attempt by a Silhouette terrorist cell, we are >upgrading the security protocols for this >complex; until the new measures are in place, >lock codes will be changed as follows: > >[text deleted] >Armory: 2917.
One of my men informed me that this code was incorrect; after checking with Ops, we determined that the correct code is "2971".
Cptn.
9981 Subject: Operational Status Continue monitoring the situation with the augmented units; I want all possible wetware recovered from the primary unit, but your top priority should be the interrogation of the secondary unit ("JC Denton").
Viability of the secondary unit is of non-importance now that the killswitch has been activated -- I'd like any procedures employed selected with an eye towards maximum informational yield.
Until the freighter preparations have been completed, you will have full authority over UNATCO headquarters and attached facilities.
9981 Subject: RE: Security Directives >* All augmentation canisters should >immediately be removed to a secure area and >access restricted to authorized personnel with >clearance of Domination/5F or higher only.
After inventory, we have moved one augmentation canister 12C (aggressive defense/spy drone) to the Nanotech Lab where it has been placed in a suspension crate, coded 9905.
9981 Subject: Commando Refit New detachments of MJ12 commando units are now being refitted and should come online shortly.
Upgraded units will initially be assigned on an "as necessary" basis to high priority MJ12 facilities; one of the first teams should arrive at your location within forty-eight hours to be placed directly under your command.
In addition to their standard 7.
62mm firearms, short range rockets have been added to their arsenal.
Enhanced power armor utilizing heat-dispersing foam insulation will greatly reduce damage from fire or plasma weaponry, while ballistic shielding provides significant protection from small arms fire.
An integrated rebreather also renders them invulnerable to any aerosol or gas weapons.
Use this team and your discretion to maintain the integrity of the facility and support MJ12 forces already in New York.
SCIENTIST 1 Hey!
Find somewhere else to hide.
We don't want any trouble with the troops.
Dr.
Moreau tried to escape once, but he got shot in the leg.
If you insist on bothering us, talk to Moreau.
He knows the code to the Medical Area.
SCIENTIST 2 Keep us out of this.
We don't want any trouble.
JCDenton.
so you really exist.
SCIENTIST 3 Don't worry.
No one here's going to call the guards.
If I was trying to escape, I'd use the air-conditioning ducts.
Good luck.
I hope you make it.
MOREAU My goodness!
Mr.
Denton.
Did you escape?
How do you know who I am?
MOREAU I'm a prisoner, too, and I say your name every day.
I have cells from your body in culture.
Your brother's, too.
Is he nearby?
MOREAU They have the cadaver in the Medical Area.
Agent Denton, believe me, I share your loss.
MOREAU They have him in the Medical Area.
Agent Denton, believe me, I share your fury at this killswitch functionality.
MOREAU Only from his tissues.
The guards want me to figure out why your bodies tolerate the nanities -- a damn hard question, I'm sorry to say.
They know enough already.
MOREAU I try!
Oh, how I try!
MOREAU I've already been shot once, thank you.
But good luck.
The only code I can give you is 0199 -- that's to the Medical Area.
Maybe you'd like to see your brother.
Thank you very much.
MOREAU I just came from the Medical Area -- it's down the hall.
Scientists are not allowed to leave this level.
In three years, I still haven't figured out who I'm working for.
It's not UNATCO, not directly.
Paramilitary types run the place.
They seem to have international ties.
Mr.
Denton, I wish you luck.
SECRETARY Is he armed?
MJ12 TROOP It's Denton.
We aren't taking any chances.
SECRETARY I hope nobody gets hurt.
MJ12 TROOP We've got him penned in.
He won't get far.
SECRETARY What about this area?
Is it safe?
MJ12 TROOP Long as I'm with you.
DATACUBE Captain Hernandez: We are in the process of ghosting all network security resources to provide additional protection against possible intrusion or denial of service attacks.
Until the process is complete, all security computers will be utilizing a temporary system.
Login: MJ12 Password: INVADER Agent Sherman 1.
NURSE You won't get far.
They've locked the doors.
He was dead when he got here.
You won't make it any easier on yourself by staring at the body.
Please let us get on with our work.
NURSE You won't get far.
They've locked the doors.
He's perfectly okay.
Look for yourself.
We have a lot to learn from this examination.
Please let us get on with our work.
Are you all right?
What are they doing to you?
They want to study the way I die.
I'll slip out on my own.
Check in with Alex when you reach UNATCO Level 3.
Some of those guys are on our side.
But you better make it.
By the way, be on the lookout for Anna.
She came by the cellblock.
There's something you should know about mechs.
They have killswitches, too.
Only theirs are instantaneous.
I guess mechs have us beat on one count.
The NSF learned that Anna's is stored in two separate UNATCO computers with the login "demiurge" and password "archon", but I never managed to find it.
See you in Hong Kong.
I'll slip out on my own.
We're beneath UNATCO headquarters.
The exit doors lead to Reyes' office.
We just have to get to Hong Kong.
You better get out of here.
I'll make it.
I promise.
) 1.
He escaped!
You shouldn't be back here.
We don't want any trouble with the guards.
There was nothing we could do for your brother.
I'm sorry.
The troopers, you know.
He was lucky.
The killswitch would have put him in terrible agony.
He escaped!
You shouldn't be back here.
We don't want any trouble with the guards.
I'm afraid your brother has about eighteen hours to live.
Wish I had better news.
If they've activated your own killswitch mechanism, you might have as long as twenty-four.
Walton Simons wants us to study the tissue damage.
I don't exactly like what happened, but I guess they've got to think about international security.
Objective complete.
Now exit the facility.
The code to the exit door is 1125.
Please leave the facility.
At least one of you must survive.
The code to the exit door is 1125.
DATACUBE PROSPECTUS: SERIES P AGENTS proposal by Dr.
Arthur Donovan (VersaLife/HK) The Series P agents are the logical continuation of research resulting from the Series N: the development of a human agent with enhanced capabilities and absolute loyalty, but without the non-standard appearance of mechanical augmentation or the unpredictability of nano-augmentation.
Like the Series N, the strength and speed of the Series P should be substantially above baseline while new conditioning techniques will result in minimal pain response.
We conservatively predict a Series P agent would be 78% more effective in combat than a normal operative without any form of augmentation.
Key features from the Series N agent will also be carried over, including the self-termination mechanism.
An ingenious variation on the "kill-switch," the self-termination mechanism is wired into the autonomous nervous system of an agent.
If mortally wounded, the mechanism will activate and explode, eliminating any evidence of the agent and damaging nearby hostiles.
However, we are still continuing in our attempts to isolate the source of the albino traits present ever since the Series L, but so far the simple addition of sunglasses and dark clothing appear to have resolved the matter in a practical fashion.
DATACUBE Surgical Pre-Evaluation Subject: Paul Denton .
subject shows a number of departures from nominal baseline physiology, including a noted absence of all H type epsilon immunoglobin proteins which would seem to be related to his ability to tolerate nano-augmentations that are typically rejected by the vast majority of the population.
Of particular interest is that the subject tests positive for the "Gray Death" yet shows no apparent symptoms or adverse effects.
MECHANIC Get out of the way.
We have enough to worry about.
MECHANIC Of course!
Just look!
Only one is operational -- and now it's malfunctioning!
MECHANIC I think it was you!
You don't exactly blend in, okay?
I think you're the one they caught -- and now you're trying to escape!
MECHANIC Of course!
Just look!
Only one is operational -- and they want us to deploy!
Why don't you give me the security login, and I'll see what I can do.
MECHANIC Ha!
Good one!
You don't exactly blend in, okay?
I know that you're the one they caught -- and now you're trying to escape!
You gonna sound the alarm?
MECHANIC Maybe we can swing a deal, eh?
You want the security login -- 500 credits.
I also have 762 mm ammo for 600, or what about an accuracy weapon mod?
Tell me the security login.
MECHANIC Okay, we have a deal.
The login is MJ12; the password is Invader.
As maybe you have discovered, you can use the computer to tell the one operational bot to attack the soldiers.
MECHANIC I'm on your side.
What do you want to buy?
MECHANIC I wish I was going, too.
They've had me locked up here for months.
I'm on your side.
What do you want to buy?
MECHANIC I hope you make it.
MECHANIC I will help, but you have to compensate me for the risk.
I'm pretty loaded down.
Let me drop something.
) MECHANIC You're Denton.
I thought you were dead.
Leave me out of it.
You're gonna bring the troops down here.
I just want to stay out of the way.
Hey, I just work on the bots.
If you're looking for hardware, talk to Sven.
They keep this level sealed off with a code.
There's no way out.
DAEDALUS This is the maintenance facility for the security bots.
The armory is to the south, on the opposite side of the main chamber.
You have found your equipment.
8588 Subject: Plasma Gun Dr.
Alibek: Your facility is one of the first to receive our new production model plasma gun; as you know, this weapon will be phased into use first by our special operations teams, then by selected elements of our military and security organization over the next month.
As one of our leading weapons researchers in North America, we are certainly interested in any opinions you might have regarding its combat effectiveness.
Attached you should find the full technical specifications.
Please feel free to correspond with me directly if you have any further questions.
The code for the security container is 5239.
Aston Greer Director of Security, MJ12 DATACUBE JANINE'S BOTS SPECS AND OVERVIEW PAGE BRAVO-3 PEACEBRINGER The Page Industries Bravo-3 Peacebringer is an affordable security and patrol bot that combines a bipedal frame with an air-cooled mini-gun that utilizes the 7.
While the AI is limited in its capabilities, it is more than adequate to the needs of most security -- and many military -- forces around the world, having been deployed in such troubled hot-spots as Hong Kong, Chicago, New York, Buenos Aires, New Delhi, Moscow, and Paris.
Like almost all bots designed to maneuver in urban environments, the Bravo-3 employs a radar imaging system for situational awareness, but unlike previous models in the Peacebringer line the Bravo-3 is now equipped with a RazorThorn signal processor for target acquisition.
Organizations and facilities in need of heavier bot armament often turn to the larger Delta-2 Peacebringer, equipped with thicker armor and missiles.
DATACUBE Hey Martin, there's been some kind of security snafu so all the codes have been changed until further notice -- blanket orders from a new guy I haven't seen before, an agent of some sort.
The new armory code is 2971, but don't let that get around.
I just wanted you to have access in case the bots get twitchy again.
That last OS upgrade seemed a bit shaky, and that makes me nervous when applied to walking gun platforms.
-- Peter NYC - UNATCO HQ DAEDALUS Please exit to the helipad.
Potential encounters include Jaime Reyes, Sam Carter, Alex Jacobson, and Joseph Manderley.
(Potential encounters include Jaime Reyes, Sam Carter, Alex Jacobson, Joseph Manderley, and Anna Navarre.
) BOOK UNATCO HANDBOOK: Appendix A Origins of UNATCO In recent years the swelling tide of international terrorism coupled with enmity between states, wildly varying laws, and an anachronistic devotion to arbitrary borders has resulted in the decreasing effectiveness of local law enforcement.
UNATCO was formed with just such a mission in mind, an organization that could transcend national boundaries and provide security for all nations that subscribe to its charter.
Founded with the principles of the United Nations as its cornerstone, UNATCO is FAIR, JUST, and protects the individual liberties of all the citizens of the world.
The criminal thrives on anonymity, but soon there will be no place for them to hide.
Victory over terrorism is the prize for our VIGILANCE.
JAIME REYES JC!
You escaped?
Is that what lockdown's about?
JAIME REYES I heard they killed Paul.
MiB's raided the apartment.
He's going to slip out on his own.
JAIME REYES Manderley's a snake.
He told me they were going to leave your brother alone.
What can I do to help?
Why don't you join me?
We could meet up in Hong Kong.
JAIME REYES I was hoping you'd let me tag along.
I can remember that.
Be careful.
I could use an ally inside UNATCO.
JAIME REYES Good idea.
I can keep you informed.
You know what they do to spies.
JAIME REYES I will.
By the way, the lab finally sent the augmentation canister I ordered.
Can your bots do the installation?
JAIME REYES Yeah, it was going to be a welcome-aboard present.
JAIME REYES We're under lockdown.
You'll need to find a key to the front doors.
I'll catch a plane in the morning.
Clean the place out.
It's not my clinic anymore.
( ALEX JC!
I've been watching through your infolink.
A harrowing escape.
ALEX You're gonna need a key to get out of UNATCO -- we're under lockdown.
I'd give it to you but -- I don't know.
Anna's on patrol.
ALEX I think I have to play it safe.
If you can get rid of her, I'll give you the key and maybe I can escape myself.
Otherwise, I'm gonna keep my head down.
Sorry, JC.
Neither of us is gonna get very far as long as Anna is around.
) ( ANNA NAVARRE I will have to kill you myself.
ANNA NAVARRE How did you know --) ALEX Been watching you from the cameras, JC.
Double back and I'll give you the key to the front doors.
ALEX Here's that key.
Daedalus.
ALEX What are you talking about?
Daedalus.
I hope my escape was entertaining to watch.
ALEX Daedalus?
What are you talking about?
ALEX You gave Anna exactly what she deserved.
I've sat here and watched her kill dozens of prisoners.
Now I'm not so worried about sticking out my neck to give you this key.
Daedalus.
ALEX What are you talking about?
ALEX The link went down.
At first I thought they'd executed you.
Somebody cut the power to Detention.
ALEX I installed UNATCO's security myself.
It's unbeatable.
You're starting to scare me.
Who's Daedalus, and why does he want to rescue me?
ALEX A better hacker than I.
A trick like that -- Well, it crossed my mind, I have to admit.
I'm pretty disgusted with the agency right now -- but I would've been caught.
ALEX No, but I can't just sit back and watch.
Let me give you a key to the front door.
Base is under lockdown until you're recaptured.
Maybe you should quit UNATCO.
ALEX And do what?
ALEX I might do that.
Sure, I'll think about it.
And I'm going to check into this mystery hacker.
I'll check the logs.
Maybe this Daedalus didn't cover his tracks.
You should pay Manderley a visit on your way out, give him a good scare.
You better get moving.
76490 Subject: RE: Inquiry The Oracle says: Initial analysis of entity token "MJ12" (also reference entity tokens "Majestic", "Majestic 12", "Majestic Council of Twelve", "They Who Rule the World in Majesty", "MJID") yields confusing results that must be further refined through additional pattern analysis.
Would appear to be related to entity token "Illuminati" and other self-organizing institutions that seek to affect global change through localized alteration of sociopolitical systems.
Extant records dating back 837 years are extensive, but subject to a number of valid curve- fitting functions that render speculation as to possible motive or overall goals only 27.
3% accurate.
We dislike this ambiguity and will work to clarify prior to final report.
[[The Oracle would like to know what you think of the color blue.
]] SHANNON Oh!
JC!
I'm just taking one last look at the old place.
Amazing, if you think about it, all the hours I spent dreaming about working here.
all the heroic fantasies, when really this place is just a cinderblock bunker with a carpet.
SHANNON My banking.
Oh yes!
Never mind me.
Go ahead and escape.
I won't pull the alarm!
Really, as long as you stay out of the way, I don't have any reason to hurt you.
SHANNON Okay!
I admit it!
I'm the one who's been stealing from the HQ!
It was me all along.
Kaplan, the false floor in Alex's office, everything that's missing.
It was me!
What'd you take?
SHANNON I don't know.
You sure you can keep it hush-hush?
I found a few scrambler grenades I was gonna give Kaplan -- good against bots, you know -- but you could take 'em.
I have three, 1250 each.

I don't even have enough for one.
SHANNON I'll wait for the Tech Sergeant.
He gives me almost as much.
) 1.
SHANNON Deal.
SHANNON You want one or not?
) SHANNON I'm all out.
We'll have to wait until people start to go home.
Don't tell anybody!
SAM CARTER We've been through that, soldier.
Just Carter.
SAM CARTER I'm unlocking the armory.
I don't want to know where you're going; just load up.
SAM CARTER I said load up; I don't want to hear about it.
You should join me.
SAM CARTER Let's get one thing straight: we've got our share of crooked bureaucrats -- fact -- but this is still UNATCO, and by and large the people in this building are twenty-four carat gold.
SAM CARTER The only way to save the agency is for the good people to stay.
That's how I see it.
SAM CARTER There's more to that story than you know.
Simons got involved; Kaplan squealed like a pig.
That woman Shannon's got a surprise waiting for her in the morning.
Very convenient for us.
Take what you need.
Load up.
You've still got to break out of HQ.
Some say concentrated power leads to abuse, but I believe that if an institution has a solid foundation it can survive the narrow aspirations of the people it employs.
We'll get this place back on track.


09421 Subject: Thank You Your assistance in helping us to compromise UNATCO security protocols was instrumental to your friend's escape; while we still do not know the identity of the person or persons calling themselves "Daedalus," they have given us ample reason to believe that he will be an asset to the cause of freedom.
I should go without saying that this message will erase itself before the security systems come back online -- any attempt to copy or archive it will fail.
Minister of True Lies Tandis qu'ils dorment, nous gagnerons.
9868 Subject: Get Out They are closing in on your position.
Exit the building as soon as possible.
You must escape.
20892 Subject: Killswitch Evaluation With your impressive grasp of nano-augmentation I thought it appropriate that you should participate in the evaluation of J. C. Denton's killswitch.
It's unfortunate when situations such as this occur, particularly when they involve agents with the obvious talents and abilities of the Denton brothers.
But given the need to protect civilians from potential rogue operatives, I'm sure you'll understand the necessity of developing a more effective killswitch, something similar to the instantaneous killphrases installed in all our mechanically augmented agents.
Please contact Agent Sherman for the evaluation methodology.
A recent hit on the Lucky Money Club by suspected members of the criminal "Luminous Path Triad" was only the opening salvo in an escalating war between unidentified members of local criminal organizations.
Casualties have included not only targets of opportunity, but also governments facilities and urban infrastructure; both Hong Kong police and military are on heightened alert.
As the situation develops and we receive further reports from UNATCO field ops this information will be updated.
JANICE REED JC!
Manderley!
It's JC!
How could you betray the Coalition?
MANDERLEY I can't control a man's mind.
We hoped you'd give UNATCO an urbane, diplomatic face -- that's all.
We screwed up your priorities.
MANDERLEY I refuse to be pushed into some obscure bureaucratic cubbyhole!
Look around.
Your star pupil has come back to teach a lesson to his old instructor.
MANDERLEY JC!
How about this one?
I swear not to rest until UNATCO is free of you and the other crooked bureaucrats who have perverted its mission.
MANDERLEY Big words for a rookie.
The only problem is that security is well aware of your escape.
Trust me, you won't leave the facility alive.
Even if you escape, your killswitch is counting down.
You'll be dead in twenty-three hours.
Another fifty billion dollars down the drain.
MANDERLEY You Dentons sure hung us out to dry.
You won't recognize UNATCO in a few weeks.
Simons will turn it into his own private army.
I had stuck a very careful balance between Washington and the public interest.
That may never again be possible.
Go on.
Make your getaway.
You did our dirty work for us.
I'm going to have to step in myself and restore discipline.
Consider that my resignation; I don't have time to write a letter.
Even if you escape, your killswitch is counting down.
You'll be dead in twenty-three hours.
Another fifty billion dollars down the drain.
76490 Subject: Disappointment We are disappointed in your performance to date, particularly with regards to JC Denton -- while both he and his brother were expendable, considerable time and effort was involved in their creation.
Pending a more thorough post mortem, we can only assume that your handling of them must bear part of the blame.
We'll discuss this further in holoconference, but until then I've given Agent Sherman full authority over UNATCO headquarters and MJ12 facilities.
I've also assigned Dr.
Reyes to evaluate the performance of the killswitches for the nano-augmented agents.
Maintain a close observation of him and report any inconsistencies in his behavior immediately.
Further security breaches will not be tolerated.
JANICE REED I thought we were a family here.
DATACUBE ACOUSTIC SOUND SENSOR, DESIGN AND SPECIFICATIONS The acoustic gunfire sensor has been deployed by a number of organizations throughout the world in those urban areas where it might otherwise be difficult to implement and maintain a pervasive security presence.
Utilizing fairly rudimentary DSP algorithms, the sensor will trigger if any sound matching the profile of a gunshot occurs within the sensor's detection radius; field tests in Hong Kong have shown them to be 88% accurate, with an overall 12% decrease in crime within six months.
Cheap and easy to install, acoustic gunfire sensors can be fitted to buildings, lamp posts, or any other free standing structure.
GUNTHER HERMANN No, I cannot forgive.
No.
not the killing of Agent Navarre.
I will follow you.
Denton, I will get you!
Any and all suspicious activity is to be treated with utmost caution, while ARMED RESPONSE is sanctioned for unauthorized activity.
Personnel without specific responsibilities should consider themselves LOCKED DOWN until further notice.
JOCK Daedalus.
He called himself Daedalus.
JOCK Nope.
I came because I owe your brother Paul a few favors.
(Come on, let's go.
I'm going to take you to Hong Kong.
JOCK Me too, JC.
Me too.
Get in.
I'm going to take you to Hong Kong.
You'll have to earn the trust of your brother's allies.
Let's go.
JOCK Time to see if this stealth copter is worth all the fuss.
MJ12 has a facility in Hong Kong, and they'll be watching for us.
MIGUEL Good luck, JC.
I can make it on my own from here.
HONG KONG - MJ12 HELIBASE JOCK I blew it, JC, I'm sorry.
MJ12 must want you bad -- they locked on the chopper, and had the nav computer fly us straight in.
Blast doors are shut, and my weapons are locked.
The weapon-lock switch is on Flight Control Deck One.
Get me back on-line, or we're dead meat.
DATACUBE Maintenance Note!
Got a shipment of that experimental fuel, but this is scary stuff -- toxic six ways to Sunday, and while the emergency purge is designed to shunt it into the basement tanks in case of a problem, the fumes alone could creep back up the ventilation system and put most of the facility out of business.
Definitely lowest bid contractor work.
Until I can get a hold of someone to fix this mess, I've slapped a temporary lockout on the purge valve: 99871.
Give me a ring at (443) 2334-2388-123 if there's a problem.
JOCK Careful down there.
That fueling equipment was installed by the lowest bidder.
One time I had to fly a couple of gassed technicians to the emergency room.
You just released poison gas into the lower levels.
Find a hazmat suit or get out of there!
DATACUBE ALL HONG KONG MJ12 PERSONNEL Hong Kong is a unique environment for MJ12 personnel and provides a number of challenges that all members should be aware of on a daily basis.
Currently, only tenuous ties exist between MJ12 and local authorities -- though MJ12 is working to resolve that situation -- and consequently, police and security cannot be expected to understand the special nature of MJ12's charter.
Agents, operatives, security, and other personnel should adhere closely to the Confidentiality Guidelines outlined in your handbook.
One key factor in police response is the use of "acoustic gunfire sensors" scattered throughout much of Hong Kong: cheap and effective, these sensors use DSP circuitry to alert authorities to non-supressed (i. e. not silenced) gunfire.
That enables police to quickly minimize threat situations in an efficient manner.
While these sensors can be disabled, Central Operations does not recommend this course of action, but rather a considered evaluation of any tactical situation to avoid local intervention.
BOOK PROJECT DIBBUK SH-187 Specifications and Operation Domination/5F Clearance ONLY .
the goal of PROJECT DIBBUK was to create a long range, variable mission- capable rotary aircraft, realized to its fullest extent in the SH-187 "stealth helicopter.
" The production model SH-187 features a revolutionary engine powered by HIGH-EFFICIENCY ETHANOL FUEL CELLS with a flight range of over 9000 miles depending upon atmospheric conditions, and an extension of the thermoptic camouflage technology that renders it INVISIBLE across 97% of the non-visible electromagnetic spectrum.
Ideally suited for surveillance, insertion, retrieval, and limited interdiction, the SH-187 will often spend much of its operational lifetime within hostile territory, and therefore is also equipped with REMOTE DISABLING and scrambling for its key flight systems.
If necessary, the vehicle can also be scuttled remotely.
DATACUBE We had another one of the locals attempt to hack the security keypad on the elevator -- looked like a kid this time, but he did a pretty good job of staying out of the surveillance field.
Anyways, Nichole managed an override before he got in and she reset the code to 989; hopefully that'll keep them out until we can get more security on the entrance.
Until further notice, Deck One Flight Control has been sealed and troops ordered to barracks.
If you need access to Flight Control, please see Tech Sergeant McKinney.
-Mackie JOCK Back in business.
Come on down and stay clear of the blast doors to the south.
I'm going to launch a missile.
Fire in the hole!
I have to get clear!
Head for the exit, and I'll link up with you when I can.
I used to drop Paul off at a small compound east of the market -- you could start there.
Don't lose any time -- your killswitch is 12 hours old.
DAEDALUS If you die, our plans will fail.
I will give you your instructions at the appropriate time.
DATACUBE Lum-din, I've been watching the officers across the way, and with the help of a few high-powered optics and an infrared scanner managed to work out the code for the police substation: 911.
This is a lucky number for us, I think, and one we can sell.
Which Triad do you think would pay the most?
We will counsel their respective Dragon Heads at the first available opportunity, but if further incidents occur you are sanctioned to open the ordinance vault and apply force to the participants as necessary.
BUTCHER Many fine restaurants buy their meats from me.
Have you visited Lucky Money, for instance?
It is below the market, in the mall.
The trucks have stopped delivering to the other shops because of military blockades, but all of my meat is guaranteed fresh.
Fresh lamb, fresh meat.
brought in by sampan.
I will cut out the part you most desire.
Please, take your time.
Did I mention.

Free delivery.
Go away.
You are worse than the stray dogs by the canal.
You have not washed your hands.
CASSANDRA Fine.
I'll go somewhere else.
Screw you.
Who you looking at?
Take a hike.
Watch where you're going.
SALES WOMAN Those are very expensive.
CASSANDRA Screw you.
SALES WOMAN Be careful.
CASSANDRA I'm just LOOKING.
SALES WOMAN Hand-painted china, very authentic.
Do you like?
I accept international electronic currency.
LOUIS I work for the butcher, too.
Everybody in Wan Chai Market.
VENDOR I have made other arrangements.
LOUIS I never fall asleep.
I am one of the best watchmen.
VENDOR Run along.
I don't like little boys.
LOUIS This is a bad market.
Lots of bad people.
VENDOR Go!
Give that back!
Hey!
News of the Triad wars!
Red Arrow versus Luminous Path!
VENDOR Cowards.
Soon to be gone.
They have to steal weapons because they have lost the traditional arts.
VENDOR They murdered the Red Arrow leader to get the sword he invented.
VENDOR It uses modern technology.
I pay the Red Arrow even though the Luminous Path compound is fifty meters away.
Many publications.
What's your interest?
VENDOR They will control all of Wan Chai in a few weeks.
VENDOR The fighting is not going well for the Luminous Path.
Maggie Chow -- exclusive interview in the Oriental Daily News.
VENDOR A former actress.
Well respected.
She gives a lot of money to fight drug trafficking and illegal trade.
Please put the newspapers back when you are done browsing.
The Red Arrow is doing a good job cleaning up this market.
Pleased to meet you.
I must make time for other customers.
All travelers should keep informed of current events.
NEWSPAPER Mass Driver Accident Kills Over 2,000 APR - Ibadan, Nigeria The historical first delivery of ore from the Zhou Enlai Lunar Mining Complex ended in tragedy today when a targeting error resulted in the payload slamming into the outskirts of the city of Ibadan in Nigeria.
Thousands died in the initial blast that was compared to a small nuclear bomb as the payload impacted in a sparsely populated suburb, while thousands more were left disoriented, homeless, and without power or water in the wake of the explosion.
Chinese officials have halted all other deliveries from the Zhou Enlai Complex and are working with both the United Nations and officials from McMoran Global Steel to determine the cause of the error.
McMoran Global Steel was responsible for the construction of the mass driver, winning the contract from Page Industries in a heated bidding war.
"Obviously we took the utmost precautions in building the Zhou Enlai driver," said?
spokesperson?
Sean Murphy.
"But something has gone terribly wrong.
Our only real response as this point is to offer our condolences?
and aid to the people of Ibadan, and insure that such an event never occurs again.
" BOOK Jacob's Shadow by Andrew Hammond Chapter 20 Samuel looked at him from across the table, but he might as well have been peering at Jacob from the Devil's own palace in the deep blue sea.
After a moment Samuel rubbed his rheumy eyes.
"You ever wonder about morals?
" he said.
Jacob shook his head.
"I do.
all the damn time.
I wonder what it means to be good -- if there's some tally that says 'you only hurt ten people, so come on up, but eleven and you're going straight to hell.
' Then I think maybe it's a little voice that tells you, way back in your head.
And then I wonder what happens when that voice goes away.
" Jacob reached under the table and put the little .
22 pistol against one of Samuel's kneecaps.
"I don't think you're going to like my answer to that.
Where is she?
" NEWSPAPER Canal Road Tunnel Collapse Hong Kong Standard Explosions rocked the Wan Chai district two days ago as fighting between warring Triads resulted in the cave-in and flooding of the Canal Road Tunnel, effectively halting almost all access to and from the Wan Chai area.
While the fighting occurred in the early hours of the morning and traffic was light, a number of bystanders were trapped during the fighting and subsequently presumed dead.
The names of the deceased have not been released at this time.
Police have barricaded the area at the Wan Chai terminal and forbidden any access until a thorough forensic analysis can be made and the bodies removed.
In a statement released earlier today the police declined to name any suspects, though Chief Joey Leung expressed that the "reprehensible nature of this crime will not go unanswered by the Hong Kong police.
" NEWSPAPER "Gray Death" Cases Misdiagnosed Hong Kong Standard Authorities confirmed today that a number of mysterious illnesses reported at area clinics were not cases of "Gray Death" as had been previously feared, but merely a seasonal outbreak of influenza.
Dr.
Chang Lam of the People's Health Administration?
headed the inquiry.
"I can say with complete certainty that these cases exhibit absolutely none of the symptoms of the so-called 'Gray Death,' -- cases which, I might add, have so far only been reported in the less well managed cities of America and Europe.
Those malcontents who have spread rumors to the contrary are merely feeding upon the unjustified fears of the hardworking men and women of Hong Kong.
" Dr.
Lam went on to say that anyone observed making such claims should be reported to local party leaders for counseling.
DATACUBE Please use the following map, provided at no cost, to enjoy and see our beautiful district.
In Wan Chai Market is where you will take in tea, buy a bird, and shop for antiques and other wonderments!
The Old China Hand and Lucky Money Club have dancing and drinks for all.
End your day with much ovation in a sampan ride through the historic canal, or observe ceremonies at the authentic temple in the main square.
Enjoy!
GIRL Two?
PEGGY Yes, a little something to brighten up the lab.
GIRL VersaLife?
PEGGY How can you tell?
Is my hair turning blue?
GIRL VersaLife has done much to.
revitalize the community.
PEGGY Well, they're always hiring.
I guess that's something.
GIRL I will wrap them up.
PEGGY No, no -- I can manage.
GIRL Very good.
Thank you.
Please.
Look around.
Perhaps a present for your girlfriend.
Only twenty credits for that one.
A lovely bouquet of orchids, symbolizing grace and integrity.
PEGGY Such a quaint little market.
I just love Mrs.
Hang.
Excuse me.
I'm trying to shop.
TAM The shopkeepers are honest.
You will find a good bargain here.
Notify me of any problems.
Large unbuttoned coat pockets.
not advisable.
Keep your wallet in your front pocket.
CHINESE MILITARY POLICE 1 I do not recognize you.
I cannot make deals with strangers.
Please do not interfere in my business.
Please.
We are being observed.
CHINESE MILITARY POLICE 2 The market will close in two hours.
Please go about your business.
Purchase a guidebook if you are lost.
There is fighting in the Canal Road Tunnel.
Be advised.
Stay in the market and you will be safe.
The Triads are at war.
We are working to resolve the difficulty.
HONG KONG - LUCKY MONEY CLUB ISAAC Beer is 15; wine is 120.
ISAAC What do you want to know?
Doesn't the Chinese government care?
ISAAC The Chinese leave Hong Kong alone.
They barricade the roads to control trade to the mainland, but they know how business is done.
ISAAC Maybe the Luminous Path, but China knows that the Red Arrow are business owners, entrepreneurs, community leaders, and that they protect the city from outside influences.
" What does China fear?
ISAAC China is the last sovereign country in the world.
Authoritarian but willing -- unlike U. N.-governed countries -- to give its people the freedom to do what they want.
ISAAC Listen to me.
This is real freedom, freedom to own property, make a profit, make your life.
The West, so afraid of strong government, now has no government.
Only financial power.
ISAAC Rhetoric.
And you believe it!
Don't you know where these slogans come from?
ISAAC Well-paid researchers -- how do you say it?
-- "think tanks," funded by big businesses.
What is that?
A "think tank"?
ISAAC It's privately-funded propaganda.
The Trilateral Commission in the United States, for instance.
ISAAC A system organized around the weakest qualities of individuals will produce these same qualities in its leaders.
ISAAC The mark of the educated man is the suppression of these qualities in favor of better ones.
The same is true of civilization.
RA MEMBER 1 Excuse me, sir, this room is off-limits to club patrons.
I suggest you leave.
One of you guys run the place?
RA MEMBER 1 Max Chen is in the other room.
Do not bother him unless he is expecting you.
Isaac is letting anybody back here these days.
The Wan Chai merchants are being stubborn.
RA MEMBER 2 We need to organize.
The Canal Road is too dangerous now.
RA MEMBER 3 Stop complaining.
RA MEMBER 2 The police are holding out this time.
RA MEMBER 3 .
dogs.
RA MEMBER 2 Hundley is working for the Luminous Path.
I am certain.
RA MEMBER 3 Stop complaining.

then I gave him the old rat treatment.
Never fails!
I want nothing to do with gwailos.
Leave us!
Go!
RA MEMBER 1 Currently we have no work for American-style gangsters.
Remain here only as long as your business requires.
We are having a meeting.
Please.
our patience is limited.
Enough!
Go!
You're the boss here?
MAX CHEN "Dragon head.
" Who are you?
It is urgent that I find him.
MAX CHEN This is the headquarters of the Red Arrow Triad.
You have come to the last place in Hong Kong he would be seen.
MAX CHEN I would cut out your tongue, but perhaps you are just ignorant.
If you see Mr.
MAX CHEN That is all.
This is the height or arrogance.
Ignorant gwailo!
Who does this American think he is?
I have something to tell you.
MAX CHEN Then say it, and we will see what it is worth.
She's an operative for a group called Majestic 12.
MAX CHEN You insult Ms.
Chow -- to my face?
What is your proof?
MAX CHEN The police?
Don't be ridiculous -- they are mercenaries.
The Luminous Path must have paid them well for this!
She's trying to provoke a war.
MAX CHEN Don't raise your voice to me.
If you want me to believe you, bring me some proof -- bring me the sword itself.
I'm not interested in anything else.
This is the height of arrogance.
9009 Subject: Unpleasant Prospects Max, we have been friends since we were children, so I hope you will not find any disrespect in what I am about to say -- but first, I must express my great sorrow at the death of Yuen.
He was the first of many great Dragon Heads, and I know you will follow the same emminent tradition.
We here at police headquarters?
are doing our best to locate his killer, and I will be sure that you have ample opportunity to discuss the matter with them once they have been found.
But with all this said, it must also be said that the dispute between the Red Arrow and the Luminous Path has become unseemly and not in the best interests of the people of Hong Kong.
The recent collapse of the Canal Road tunnel was unfortunate and has resulted in many problems.
I have been forced to authorize the use of unpleasant measures if this continues.
Please contact me so that we may discuss this and resolve the situation before it worsens.
Your Friend, Fong HONG KONG - MARKET JOCK You're next to the compound Paul used to visit, but I don't know who it belongs to.
I think I'm clear now -- good thing the NSA invested in stealth technology.
LOUIS She said no.
GORDON QUICK Impossible.
LOUIS She said she has made other arrangements.
GORDON QUICK The Red Arrow?
LOUIS She was very rude.
GORDON QUICK You know what to do.
LOUIS Yes, sir.
GORDON QUICK Don't waste any time.
LOUIS Go away.
I can tell them you're a spy, and they will kill you.
I know the Dragon Head.
I heard that he was a frequent visitor to this compound.
Do you know him?
GORDON QUICK The Luminous Path is closed to gwailos.
GORDON QUICK My name is Gordon Quick.
I knew your brother, but you are not him.
They say you are loyal to UNATCO.
A day later I was helping the NSF.
GORDON QUICK You want me to take your word?
You are in Hong Kong now, and we are businessmen.
Paul earned our trust by working with us.
GORDON QUICK No games.
We would like another ally like Paul.
The Triads are at war, thanks to a woman named Maggie Chow.
A sword was stolen from the Red Arrow Triad, and Miss Chow started the war by blaming us, the Luminous Path.
She works for Majestic 12, and she did steal the sword.
I read it in her file at the police station.
GORDON QUICK That was you?
You have guts, Mr.
Denton.
But it's not enough.
No one trusts the police.
We need concrete proof.
The sword.
" Nanotechnology developed by the Red Arrow's former leader, before he was murdered.
We know that Chow is a liar, but we have no proof.
I need his help.
GORDON QUICK Mr.
Be observant.
Find and examine that sword.
It is the evidence we need.
GORDON QUICK The former Red Arrow leader stole nanotech components from VersaLife; I believe it was the corporation that had him murdered.
All contests between the Triads are decided with the ancient art of fighting.
The structure of the blade was maintained by a coating of nanoscale whetting devices.
Very sharp.
We have begun work on our own sword, but progress is slow.
I find it suspicious that Maggie Chow came to power precisely when the former Red Arrow leader was murdered.
The sword has killed more men as an argument than it ever did as a weapon.
Keep your word.
Go to Maggie Chow.
Find out the truth.
(I will warn you once: do not assault our agents or representatives.
The boy -- he was a good earner.
) 2.
She works for Majestic 12.
GORDON QUICK Majestic 12?
GORDON QUICK You have proof?
GORDON QUICK Good.
Inform the Red Arrow dragon head.
Then he will see who is the real traitor.
GORDON QUICK Max Chen is his name.
The Red Arrow headquarters is at the Lucky Money Club in the mall area beneath the market.
Come back and tell me what he says.
We can begin to negotiate a truce.
Let me know how Chen responds.
MONK 1 (grumbles) .
yau hak.
Many other Buddhas in Hong Kong.
I am keeping an eye on you.
I am not posing for any more photos today.
MONK 2 Um goi jie guo.
Gol gan mil hai guong chiang duo.
Nei sickum sick gong guong dong wah?
HONG KONG - WATERWAYS LOCAL MAN I was walking here.
Get out of my way.

just about had enough.
Always.
one eye on my pocket.
You VersaLife's think you own everything.

sick of experiments.
Leave me alone.
CHINESE MILITARY Not advisable for a tourist to visit the canals at night.
Come back in the morning.
Sampan rides, five credits.
What business do you have here at this hour?
I said not safe.
Go home.
We make note of anyone who visits the canals.
DEALER Fifty.
PUSHER Seventy-five.
DEALER Both, seventy-five.
PUSHER Double UO Globe, original one kilo bricks, pure.
Ninety for both.
DEALER Hey!
You!
PUSHER Who is that?
DEALER You made a big mistake, home boy.
GIRL Good evening, sir.
GIRL Not at all.
Everyone requires sampan now that the Triads destroyed Canal Road Tunnel.
GIRL Fighting in the tunnels, sir, five nights ago.
Now it is caved and flooded.
GIRL People have died.
Yesterday four Europeans arrived, treasure-hunters; they are here to dive in the ruins and loot the bodies.
GIRL It is an ugly business but a profitable one.
They had given me a commission if I can sell the weapon mods they have already recovered.
I have modifications for accuracy, reload, recoil for 750, 600, and 400.
(Wait -- I've got to drop something first.
) GIRL Very good.
Ready to buy?
GIRL Very good.
Ready to buy?
(Maybe later.
GIRL Come back when you want to make a deal.
GIRL You can always go diving yourself.
There are plenty of bodies where the Canal Tunnel collapsed.
GIRL Don't worry.
I will be here when you have the money.
) GIRL Very good.
Now we just have to wait for harbormaster clearance.
PERSON Activity -- what kind of activity?
The canal's dead.
PERSON They have added restrictions for nighttime.
Nevertheless, there is traffic, even when you don't see it.
PERSON Illegal products, of course, but you find everything in the canal, things that have been lost, things people want to forget.
Last month it was the leader of the Red Arrow.
He was floating near my house.
PERSON My name is in the paper.
I saw the cut across his neck.
They are right.
It was cauterized.
PERSON Cauterized.
The scientific terminology.
Someone cut him, but it was a weapon that cannot be explained with current technology.
Do you sell it?
PERSON Are you.
Are you a tourist?
I hear the Triads control all of the smuggling in Hong Kong.
PERSON Yes.
The Triads do it.
I am a simple merchant.
I receive only fruits and vegetables.
But you said -- PERSON Yes, fresh.
For my grocery stall in the market.
I will have to stop by and take a look sometime.
PERSON My store is not open in the evening.
Come in the morning.
We have a fresh new shipment of durian.
Be careful who you talk to about the Triads.
I am busy.
Go now.
Many people show up dead in the canals.
Not just Triads.
MAN Paul Denton!
I have the blueprints.
I must warn you! I. Oh.
MAN I have made a mistake.
What's the problem?
MAN No, I have made a mistake.
No.
I am sorry.
I must say nothing.
They would kill me.
I really am Paul's brother.
You said something about blueprints.
MAN No.
I do not know you.
Maybe you work for VersaLife.
Good, we're getting closer.
You might as well tell me the rest.
If I'm gonna kill you, you're already dead.
MAN He paid me!
Okay?
I only did it for the money.
I have the blueprints of the VersaLife building.
2,000 credits.
And I have the other things he wanted, the scrambler grenade for 1,250 and the thermoptic camo for 4,000.
MAN All he said was not to get caught and to tell nobody what I did.
MAN Excellent.
Tell no one.
Okay.
I will sell to you.
MAN Paul would pay me.
I will wait for Paul.
MAN I must be paid.
I risked my life.
MAN You will have to get the money.
) 1.
) MAN Excellent.
Tell no one.
I have nothing else.
You bought everything.
I hope you told the truth or Paul will kill me.
There are definitely secret areas of VersaLife.
Paul was right about that.
BARTENDER Many bargains at the Old China Hand.
Everything eight credits.
friend of the Luminous Path Triad.
And, by extension, enemy of the Red Arrow.
among the locals?
BARTENDER Shrewd, but fair.
Very well-connected.
You want to buy.
biomechanical augmentation?
Is there a lot of crime in Hong Kong?
BARTENDER Much more than before, yes.
Now it's very easy for the smugglers.
BARTENDER Slaves, heroin, biotech.
BARTENDER Oh, sure.
Visit the Lucky Money underneath Wan Chai, the Red Arrow headquarters.
All of their girls, they are kidnapped in Thailand or the Philippines.
Not a pretty business.
BARTENDER Mostly VersaLife, the Golden Triangle of biotech.
BARTENDER Import restrictions in many places -- the United States, European countries.
BARTENDER Certain genetic advances.
laboratory organisms.
Also, tiny computers in your tissue.
BARTENDER Everything.
The Second Men.
BARTENDER English author.
Olaf Stapledon.
You have not read?
BARTENDER Last and First Men.
History of 19 species of human beings.
I cannot believe you do not know this book.
Do you know of a Maggie Chow?
BARTENDER Maggie Chow.
A bad character.
Before, she was an actress.
Now she is everywhere in Hong Kong politics.
They say that she is a spy.
BARTENDER No one knows.
Somebody paid a lot of money once, and one of the Red Arrows ended up floating in the canal.
Dangerous to talk about.
BARTENDER You buy in Wan Chai, you pay twelve.
Here, eight.
BARTENDER Tell me.
What do you want?
I prepare.
BARTENDER Many bargains at the Old China Hand.
Everything eight credits.
BARTENDER Knock you on your ass.
BARTENDER Cheng tsui bean!
No room.
Let me lighten my load.
) DRUNK What?
DRUNK I know you.
I know who you are.
DRUNK You work for the Luminous Path.
You should be dead now, but you left Hong Kong just in time.
DRUNK No, it was you.
Miss Chow told us -- you are the American who helped them steal the sword!
They will control China as they control Hong Kong, very soon.
You will not leave Hong Kong alive.
I will tell Max Chen that you have returned.

bad mistake.
The Inner Kingdom must be open to the world.
Everyone suffers when the roads are closed and we are surrounded by walls.
WHORE I take care of you.
Special price.
Romantic.
A boat, yes?
I know where it's dark.
LP MEMBER Sorry.
I do not wish to offend.
Travel in safety.
The Luminous Path watch over you.
You may go about your business.
I will not bother you again.
LP MEMBER You are here to speak to Miss Chow, perhaps?
Half a block down on the left.
LP MEMBER The woman is a snake.
Believe nothing she says.
I myself have been watching Ms.
Chow.
She just met with Max Chen, leader of the Red Arrow.
You may go about your business.
We had an agent in the building across the street, but he left for business in the United States.
Don't let yourself be fooled.
Maggie Chow is a clever woman.
SCHOOL GIRL I bet you came from the market.
That's where I want to go.
My mother said there's too much fighting.
I have to stay here.
I don't hear any fighting.
The Triads know better than to cause trouble in public.
CHINESE MILITARY POLICE Strangers in Hong Kong should stay near the market.
The side-streets are not safe for tourists at night.
You should always carry a map.
I assume that's her hotel across the street.
RA MEMBER That is correct.
RA MEMBER The main elevator.
Maggie Chow will be angry if you arrive any other way.
This is a dead end.
I advise you to turn back toward the market.
You are a tourist?
Visit the Lucky Money while you're in Wan Chai.
I saw you speaking to that thug over there.
Unwise.
RA MEMBER That is a dangerous question to ask.
I don't understand.
RA MEMBER Hong Kong is not a safe place for strangers.
Take my advice -- do not get involved.
I saw you speaking to that thug over there.
Unwise.
You are a tourist?
Visit the Lucky Money while you're in Wan Chai.
This is a dead end.
I advise you to turn back toward the market.
PERSON Use front of building.
Only Triads use sidewalk lift in back.
PERSON Very many Triad members.
this part of Wan Chai.
Alley not safe.
Stay in street.
Best advice: avoid Red Arrow.
BUM You missed them.
They left over an hour ago.
Guess they're painting up there.
Saw it on their boots when they came out of the alley.
I used to paint myself.
Think they are hiring?
You may use the Residential Directory Computer, if you know how.
The seventh floor is closed for.
renovations.
All guests must use the main elevator.
Again, I apologize for not providing additional assistance.
DATACUBE Party Leader Xan, I was much inspired by your speech to our local community resource center and wish to do my part in helping to maintain a free China: as you have said, there are many threats to that freedom both from within and without.
It is with glad heart, then, that I am able to inform you of suspicious activities of Dr.
Tracey Feng.
Dr.
Feng has declared on a number of occasions that he believes cases of "Gray Death" are going untreated (a situation I cannot believe the Party would permit), and has often been observed leaving at odd hours on what he declares to be "family emergencies.
" I believe that Dr.
Feng is a good individual, with the best hopes for Hong Kong and China at heart, and could thus benefit from counseling.
Ms.
Chow was kind enough to bring this to my attention, and should be saluted for the many hours of entertainment and happiness she has brought to the Chinese people.
Our clientele are treated to not only the most elegant amenities in all of Hong Kong -- including in-door pool, spa, gymnasium, and clinic -- but also protected twenty-four hours a day by automated security and around-the- clock surveillance.
Pool & Fitness Regretfully, the recreation floor is reserved for residents.
Kit Lam-Wei By request, this resident's code has been made unavailable.
Larry & Ling Woo By request, this resident's code has been made unavailable.
Dr.
Tracey Feng By request, this resident's code has been made unavailable.
Bobby Ryan By request, this resident's code has been made unavailable.
Undergoing Renovations This floor is currently undergoing renovations in our effort to create the most modern, comfortable living space possible for future residents.
If you would like to examine the floor prior to leasing or purchasing a residence here, please sign in with our on-site manager and use code 3444.
Maggie Chow Ms.
Chow grants you access; please use the private penthouse elevator.
MAY SUNG I am sorry.
Miss Chow is not at home.
MAY SUNG You are mistaken.
Now I know she is hiding something, and I intend to find out what it is.
MAY SUNG No!
No.
You are mistaken!
Guards!
MAY SUNG You must be Mr.
Denton -- Miss Chow has been expecting you.
She is waiting in the living room.
Please follow me.
I will accompany you.
MAY SUNG You will want to talk to Miss Chow.
Follow me.
She is in the living room.
MAY SUNG Mother Chow -- Mr.
JC Denton.
MAGGIE CHOW (Mr. J.C.Denton.) in the flesh.
As dark and serious as his brother.
and Paul?
You know my brother?
MAGGIE CHOW Intimately.
Call me Maggie.
MAGGIE CHOW That is why he is still alive: he can keep a secret, even from his own brother.
MAGGIE CHOW Of course.
Mr.
He insisted I not reveal his location until we are sure we can trust you.
He has much to fear from Majestic 12.
MAGGIE CHOW Paul told you about Majestic 12, correct?
The conspiracy behind UNATCO?
just the name.
MAGGIE CHOW Majestic 12 sent Paul to murder the former Red Arrow leader -- and me, too.
MAGGIE CHOW Let's just say I persuaded him to join our side.
MAGGIE CHOW We are winning the Triad war against Majestic 12's ally -- the Luminous Path.
We were developing a new technology.
You might have heard about a sword?
MAGGIE CHOW A nanotech blade.
MAGGIE CHOW The Triads settle disputes in contests of skill, which includes the crafting of weapons.
they're trying to tip the balance?
Give the Luminous Path a technological advantage?
MAGGIE CHOW Exactly.
I try to warn the people of the danger, and the Luminous Path calls me a liar.
The police have all the evidence they need to settle this, locked up in the station at the Wan Chai market, but they will not act.
Go and see.
I know the code to their vault: 87342.
I though he was a friend of my brother's.
I agreed to visit you and learn the truth of the situation.
MAGGIE CHOW The less successful of the Triads.
Their compound at the Wan Chai Market is for petty thieves and drug-dealers.
I came from there just now; I must have missed the place.
MAGGIE CHOW Yes, you were seen.
The new Red Arrow leader is Max Chen, and you don't have to go to the Lucky Money for him to know your activities.
Now tell me about Paul.
Why did he not return?
We must find a way to end the war immediately.
Maggie.
Paul is dead.
MAGGIE CHOW What?
I'm sorry.
I understand how you must feel.
MAGGIE CHOW I.
No, it can't be.
MAGGIE CHOW He was a brave man.
honest -- too, too honest.
MAGGIE CHOW You try to prepare yourself, but.
MAGGIE CHOW I need to be alone.
Please.
He was the only brave enough to stand up to them.
I will have my revenge.
Trust me.
The police are corrupt and incompetent.
We will have to help ourselves.
Please.
go now.
Let May Sung show you out.
It’s time for you to go.
I said get out.
I don't know when he will arrive.
MAGGIE CHOW Then you must think for yourself.
In Hong Kong the truth is seldom kept in plain sight.
We cannot know who to trust -- the police, even our own families.
try to learn something about the Luminous Path.
MAGGIE CHOW All the necessary evidence is at the police station in Wan Chai market.
If only the police would act.
The Luminous Path are easy prey.
All Majestic 12 must do is wave some money under their noses.
We must expose the conspiracy behind the Luminous Path, then they will fall apart from the inside.
When your brother arrives, please tell him I have an important matter to discuss.
Go to the police station; you will find the information we need.
Enough talk.
We must act.
The police are corrupt and incompetent.
We will have to help ourselves.
Let May Sung show you out.
It’s time for you to go.
I said get out.
MAY SUNG I will accompany you.
The floor coverings were made by hand in Tibet.
Take a look around.
We have many prized Buddhas, you will observe.
You should not be in here.
Where are you going?
Get away from there.
Don't make me call the police.
Do you have no respect for our privacy?
Let me accompany you to the door.
I think it is time for you to leave.
DATACUBE When you have the time, May-Sung, I would suggest that you read two of my favorite books: Insurgent and Tai-Fun.
I believe you’ll find both of them as illuminating as I have.
They’re in my office if you’d like to borrow them.
-Maggie BOOK The True Way by Kishiro Yoshitaka .
If one is to imagine the "perfect sword" that can cut and swing with no resistance, a sword that is an extension of the mind and heart of the warrior who wields it and not a dead weight of steel, then it becomes clear that the sword is of little consequence compared to the will of the strategist.
Those who would master the Way must come to understand this: a sword is a tool whose purpose is to cut.
Each day the strategist must practice this until it is not practice, but a part of their spirit.
The strategist knows that every sword they wield is perfect, for their will is perfect, and it is through their will alone that they win battles.
BOOK Tai-Fun by Lin Yeoh .
The history of the Triads is in many ways the history of modern China.
Popular myth holds that the Triads originated as a resistance movement against the Ching dynasty after it descended from Manchuria to seize the capital of Peking by force.
When faced with a rebellion in the Fukien province, the Ching dynasty recruited an order of warrior monks who were later deemed expendable by the Emperor and all but exterminated.
Survivors organized a number of secret monasteries and became known as the "Hung Mun," dedicated to overthrowing the Chings.
The Hung Mun showed a remarkable political adaptability, portraying themselves as protectors of the people even as they accepted money from Japanese corporate fronts during WWII.
BOOK Insurgent by X .
When faced with the subversion of an organized ruling body, external action - - even when executed in concert, as a group -- is often ineffectual.
True revolution can only come from working within, and in this the ultimate change that can be brought about by an individual is magnified by the very machinery that such organizations utilize to maintain their own authority.
Historically, ruling bodies are always outnumbered by those they rule -- but still they manage to maintain a disproportionate amount of power through a combination of tradition, confusion, and punishment.
An operative who learns to simulate the veneer of a loyalist and guard their own secret heart can utilize those very same tools to overthrow such organizations, or shift them to a more ideologically pleasing axis.
DATACUBE Mr.
Hundley, It has become necessary to change my system password since it may have become compromised; I will encrypt the new password and forward it to you shortly.
Please note that any access attempts made using "Tai-Fun" should be tagged and traced for interrogation.
-Maggie Chow DATACUBE Hello Maggie!
I swear I will never forget your birthday again!
July 18th is marked on my calendar forever!
Chow, we are reassigning you temporarily.
Put the long-term agenda on hold until VersaLife has met its deadline.
It will be months and probably years before the Red Arrow can influence Beijing, whereas -- well, I'm sure you heard about my appointment.
We are in position to make a grab for Washington, and we can't let this one slip through our fingers.
Make sure the process stays on schedule.
DATACUBE NEW DATACUBE TRANSCRIPT BEGIN TIMECODE 04:56:23 RECORDING BEGINS ]]]NOW[[[ MC: -- know you took the sword, Yuen.
You took it from the wrong place and the wrong people, and now you're in pain.
You know how much I hate to see you in pain, baby.
YK: I am the Dragon Head of the Red.
Red Arrow Triad and you.
are a.
hollow woman.
MC: I'm much more than that, Yuen.
I am the only thing standing between you and a world of hurt and darkness and shame.
Tell me where the sword is, and maybe you'll die soon.
YK: And you.
you.
are a bad actress.
(unknown sound) MC: And you have one less finger.
I have been observing you through this fascinating device in your skull.
If you wish to be my ally, you will retrieve the sword and await my instructions.
Good.
Now take the sword to Max Chen at the Lucky Money Club.
If you can make peace among the Triads, then perhaps I can help you in your difficulties.
DATACUBE Mort -- I'm going to be off-site tomorrow, so I'm counting on you to head things up.
(I don't think the doorman's quite figured out how to use it yet, so you might need to do some hand holding with him.
) I also set the elevator bypass code inside the shaft to 1709 before I left, if you need to do any work down there.
Should the contractors return to work on floor seven, give them code 3444.
Any other problems come up, you know how to get a hold of me.
:Lin HARRIET You have.
twenty credits, mister?
HARRIET I.
will be honest.
It is.
crash, a big crash.
I just need.
a little, for the pain.
HARRIET You are so kind.
HARRIET You are looking for Maggie Chow?
You know something?
HARRIET She lives upstairs, but don't come in this way.
Her guards are the only ones who use the gate.
They don't like.
people snooping around.
HARRIET Thank you.
again.
I thought I was gonna die.
It's horrible.
the crash.
You can't imagine.
HARRIET How can you.
Why so cruel?
HARRIET You.
awful man.
I hope you die very soon.
YOU WILL BE RECEIVING A SEPARATE BILL, PLEASE REMIT NO PAYMENT AT THIS TIME.
VIOLATIONS OF THE NEID MAY RESULT IN FINES, ACCOUNT DEACTIVATION, VISA SUSPENSION, OR CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS.
03749 Subject: Fallback Time is short.
If you've followed orders, you should be on your way back to Hong Kong.
We can't let these bastards get away with what they've done, and what they still might do.
My brother.
my brother may be able to help.
I don't know.
I've sent him to obtain the evidence I compiled of UNATCO's recent activities, but -- I've had to treat him and everyone else I know like pawns.
I've sent them to be killed and all so that we could win the larger game.
But I think my time to be sacrificed is about to come.
And if I see you again, you're buying the beers this time.
03749 Subject: Surveillance Please continue your observations of Ms.
Chow -- I suspect that it is she who may lay at the heart of our current troubles and not the Red Arrow.
Your friend, Paul, was a great aid to the Luminous Path, and as we are in his debt, so are we in yours.
03749 Subject: Paul Needs You If you have loyalty to your friends, you must return to New York now.
I cannot ascertain the status of the person you identify as Paul Denton.
He may or may not be alive.
But it is possible that I can assist in the salvage of him and his brother if you return to New York now.
I have secured the proper authorizations for you to fly an SH-187 stealth helicopter from the Wan Chai MJ12 helibase located in the VersaLife building.
There is little time.
HONG KONG - MARKET DATACUBE .
since the fighting at the Canal Tunnel, the Luminous Path compound has remained silent and watchful.
However, at 1938 there was an explosion and the sound of a helicopter flying from east to west, but when I attempted to locate the aircraft for visual identification I could only make out a black shape against the night sky -- it's skin seemed to absorb light, like that of a shark in the deep ocean.
At 2010 I began to hear reports of a gwailo, possibly the same one who created problems for the elder brother recently, in the market -- asking questions about things he should not be asking questions about.
NO NEED FOR FURTHER COUNSELING OR REVIEW IS FOUND AT THIS TIME.
Attached you will find a full surveillance report for the activities of subject MAGGIE CHOW (HKS0084393). Ms.
Chow's associations with the RED ARROW TRIAD and its Dragon Head, MAX CHEN, are a matter of record; however, recent evidence indicated that she may also have been involved with the death of Chen's predecessor, YUEN KONG (HKS0134091), a contributing factor to the current gang war.
Ms. Chow and her relationship to the VERSALIFE CORPORATION are also under investigation, but show a high probability of being linked to the recent conflict between the Triads.
District officers are respectfully asked to note that there are several tactical options for accessing Ms.
Chow's penthouse: a service entrance at the rear of the address; a renovation project in progress on the building's seventh floor; and the roof.
These options are outlined more fully in the surveillance report if it becomes necessary to detain Ms.
Chow or search her premises.
Commander Cheung RA MEMBER Do you want to do business in Wan Chai?
RA MEMBER Do you want to do business in Wan Chai?
RA MEMBER Don't think your Luminous Path can protect you.
Now!
RA MEMBER As you wish, but don't be surprised if you don't pass your next inspection.
RA MEMBER Perhaps, but they dislike rats.
Don't interfere in my business.
Anything you like, twelve credits.
Talking all the time about the community and traditions, then they fight over technology from a multinational corporation like VersaLife.
It is self-sharpening or something.
I wish they would use it to chop off each other's heads.
Can I help you?
They say she has connections in government, and I have seen her myself -- in this shop -- have tea with big executives from VersaLife.
It was biotechnology.
She is doing scientific research.
I think she has her own office at VersaLife.
VERONICA Oh my God!
They're everywhere.
LIU We will be patient while they clean up the mess.
VERONICA You can't be serious!
LIU We would offend my nephew if we were to leave so soon.
VERONICA Please.
We are having a discussion.
LIU We had the jiaozi.
Very good.
VERONICA I can't stand it.
I've got to get out of here.
LIU They will kill the rats.
Not a problem.
May I recommend.
loongjing, most precious tea of China.
I must beg your pardon.
We were talking.
VERONICA .
disgusting.
The police are worthless!
The Red Arrow has no fear!
RA MEMBER .
a small matter to discuss.
POLICE Explain.
RA MEMBER A disturbance in the tea house.
Can you overlook?
POLICE One hundred.
RA MEMBER No injuries.
Only a prank.
POLICE One hundred.
RA MEMBER I have fifty-five.
POLICE One hundred.
RA MEMBER Sixty-five.
POLICE .
Okay, sixty-five.
Mind your own business.
Stay out of my way.
Are you looking for trouble?
I saw you watching.
Keep your mouth shut.
HONG KONG - CANAL ROAD LP MEMBER None of your concern.
We do not want spectators.
You can do nothing.
Go.
RA MEMBER Stay out of our business.
Do not judge what you do not understand.
It is too late for you to help.
POLICE Nothing to see here.
Move along.
The road's blocked.
You'll have to go through the market.
The Triads are foolish to cling to their traditional weapons.
These were gutter trash.
It's what they deserved.
If only we could get the leaders this way.
BOOK .
God's got a funny sense of humor sometimes.
" Hundley sent me to pick up a batch of karkian eggs fresh off the plane; couldn't trust anyone else, Dr.
Feng -- that's what he said.
Big job.
On the way back through the tunnel everything just fell apart, flash of light and noise and suddenly I'm lying here.
My legs are broken.
It was probably a Triad attack.
they've been fighting lately.
I thought emergency services would arrive, but no one's come.
There's no internal bleeding that I can tell.
I started to hear noises a while ago.
I think the suspension crate in the car broke open and the eggs are hatching.
I can't reach anyone on my phone.
It's been eight hours.
I slept a little.
I can hear the baby karkians -- cries of hunger, precursor to infant food seeking behavior.
The irony is this is a perfect environment for them.
I saw a shadow of one a little ago.
My rough guess is they're developing almost 20% more quickly than expected.
Some nasty noises earlier, several of the karkians picking out the weakest of the litter and tearing it to pieces.
I wish someone would come.
HONG KONG - LUCKY MONEY CLUB NEWSPAPER UNATCO Responds to Terrorist Attack New World Press - New York City A terrorist strike on Liberty Island was blunted this past week when UNATCO forces moved swiftly to neutralize the threat.
The attack, the result of a poorly organized attempt to break security at UNATCO Headquarters by the National Secessionist Forces (NSF), was characterized by one unidentified source as a "futile gesture.
" Walton Simons, Director of FEMA, worked closely with UNATCO to coordinate both US and UNATCO forces in a joint operation to root out the remaining elements of the terrorist network in New York.
"Terrorism is very much a snake that slithers out of the tall grass," said Simons.
"It is our responsibility?
to always remain alert to the danger it presents, and to act decisively when it appears.
" Authorities are currently attempting to locate JC Denton, one of the terrorist leaders who escaped in the aftermath of the attack.
EDDIE WAY The mall area is perfectly safe.
If you want a good time, I recommend the Lucky Money.
We patrol this area twenty-four hours.
TESSA I'm meeting someone.
MERCEDES Hey, man.
Where ya from?
MERCEDES We're from Australia.
On vacation?
TESSA Let's just wait for Russ.
MERCEDES He's kinda cute.
What's your name?
Is this a good club?
MERCEDES Oh, totally, and it's a Red Arrow place.
They get everything real cheap.
Look, can we ask a big, big favor?
MERCEDES My friend and I -- it's so silly -- we left our credit cards at the hotel.
Think you could get us in?
MERCEDES Only twenty each.
We get in for twenty.
MERCEDES Well, cheerio.
TESSA What a loser.
(MERCEDES Sure you don't have forty credits so we can get in?
) 2.
MERCEDES Right.
You like to dance, then?
Let's go.
TESSA You're so bad.
MERCEDES Let's go!
TESSA Thanks for getting me in.
MERCEDES That was SO cool, man.
Thank you SO much.
Do you know Max Chen?
He runs this place.
Wanna dance?
MERCEDES Mmmmm.
Bet you've got some moves I haven't seen before.
MERCEDES Lemme loosen up a bit.
Mind if I borrow ten credits to get a drink?
MERCEDES You're so cool, JC.
I'm so glad I met you.
MERCEDES I gotta be really drunk when it's almost empty like this.
Think you could buy me another drink?
You'll have to fend for yourself.
MERCEDES I'll pay you back.
I'm not paying for anything else.
MERCEDES Don't haveta get narky.
Geez.
I woulda paid you back.
Oh, great.
Now I can't even get a drink.
Oh, it's you.
DOOR GIRL Mmmmm.
leather boots.
For you, twenty-five credits admission.
DOOR GIRL Perfect.
I order you to stand in the spotlight and growl at the women like a dog who needs a master.
I see you in a corner, smoldering, hostile.
Everyone will wonder who you are.
Go call a Russian sailor a nasty name.
I want to see you fight.
I like a man with a lot of zippers.
TRIAD BOUNCER I will forgive your rudeness.
Are you trying to be funny?
Enough!
THUG I'm not your type.
THUG Look, I was here first.
Chen told me himself: if there's a job, I get it.
THUG Just back off.
I got fired at the Quick Stop next door -- without even a warning -- and I need the cash.
THUG Yeah, well, but I'm gonna get them back.
I know the login to their computer.
It's MANAGEMENT, password CODE324.
One of these nights, I'm gonna sneak in there and trash all their records.
THUG I ain't working yet.
Hey, man, you're blocking the view.
I like goth chicks.
You're getting on my nerves.
SING Good evening.
SING Have a pleasant evening.
Do you know a man named Max Chen?
SING Of course I know Max!
A terrific fellow!
SING In the back room!
He runs the whole Red Arrow from here!
Hey, you're not with the police, are you?
Great place here!
SING Isn't it?
People have the wrong idea about the Triads, you know.
SING They run the economy!
The black-market prices in clubs like this let people have a good time.
Good evening.
You must be American.

always find satisfaction at the Lucky Money.
My personal evaluation: the Filipino girls of the Red Arrow are simply the best.
Many of my clients are from the Red Arrow.
I've always enjoyed doing business with the Triads.
MAMASAN One hundred credits.
A pleasing companion.
MAMASAN Have a good time.
Please, you choose.
One hundred credits.
MAMASAN It's much more fun with two.
A dance partner for you?
One hundred credits.
MAMASAN Check at the bar, kid?
MAMASAN I'll be waiting.
Come back when you change your mind.
1 MAMASAN A dance partner for you?
One hundred credits.
2 MAMASAN Please.
You choose.
One hundred credits.
3 MAMASAN One hundred credits.
A pleasing companion.
) MAMASAN Another satisfied customer!
You will never be lonely at the Lucky Money!
Come again!
LING Hello!
What is your name?
What is your job?
You are handsome.
MAYMAY Hello!
Welcome to.
Lucky Money.
Do you like to dance?
I like to dance.
CAROLE I feel silly.
LISA You look good.
Move your hips a little more.
There you go.
CAROLE Like this?
LISA That's better.
CAROLE Want to get something to eat after this?
LISA Maybe some tea.
But I want to go home, take a bath.
CAROLE Where do you live?
LISA Not too far.
I like your tattoo.
CAROLE Really?
LISA The claws of a dragon.
touching your breast.
CAROLE I just thought it would be sexy.
LISA I'm trying to dance.
I don't think so.
Please.
CAROLE I want to dance with my friend.
We want to be by ourselves.
Leave us alone.
PARTY GIRL Hi.
Don't you like to dance?
Get in the middle.
Come on!
You would look good with fangs.
Aren't you hot in that coat?
Yeah, baby!
Party!
Wooo-hooo!
This is bitchin' music.
BUSINESSWOMAN I've never seen so many troopers.
They must be close to a breakthrough.
EMPLOYEE But which division?
BUSINESSWOMAN Maybe all of them.
Something fundamental.
I saw guards in Biotech, too.
EMPLOYEE I think it's just the UC.
BUSINESSWOMAN They've had that for weeks.
EMPLOYEE But word has gotten out.
Every engineer on the planet -- BUSINESSWOMAN VersaLife already has the best security in the industry.
EMPLOYEE Even my game-programmer friend in Texas offered me a million credits for one hour on the UC.
Wanted to make the Game of Life with buckyballs.
Joking, of course.
BUSINESSWOMAN I don't like being in the dark.
EMPLOYEE What do you mean?
BUSINESSWOMAN Everything so compartmentalized.
EMPLOYEE A pain, I know.
But all it takes is one leak to the Net, and there goes our work into the public domain.
BUSINESSWOMAN It's more like the way you'd organize a prison camp than a laboratory.
EMPLOYEE Let's not get melodramatic.
BUSINESSWOMAN I've spent months making this rotor for sorting calcium ions -- and I don't even know what it's FOR.
EMPLOYEE Kaczynski was right about the division of labor -- I'll give him that much.
Want another drink?
BUSINESSWOMAN Who puts the pieces together?
EMPLOYEE Someone who makes a lot more money than we do.
BUSINESSWOMAN I think management is involved in something criminal.
EMPLOYEE I.
don't know if you should be saying that.
BUSINESSWOMAN Really.
Why the codes?
All the procedures?
Why'd the data-entry people disappear today?
What did the company have them doing?
EMPLOYEE That's outside your department.
BUSINESSWOMAN I want to know.
What do they do all day -- and all night -- down on Level 2?
EMPLOYEE I.
don't think I can take part in this conversation.
BUSINESSWOMAN You with the company?
Troops.
at a corporation?
EMPLOYEE Not your affair.
Please do not intrude.
We do not wish to be disturbed.
BUSINESSWOMAN We're having a private discussion.
I don't believe I know you.
Back off.
I said leave me alone.
DAZED GIRL .
gangsters.
they're all gangsters.

they were cutting him!
And laughing!
And stabbing their swords.

poor Ching-kuo.
I will not sleep until the last Luminous Path is dead!
TRIAD BOUNCER Stay in the dance area.
I do not like the way you look.
I will have my eye on you.
Follow the rules.
BAR FLY Have another drink.
LAWRENCE Don't mind if I do.
BAR FLY As you were saying.
LAWRENCE Well, women back home, they aren't like your daughter.
I do very much wish to meet her.
BAR FLY You are very handsome; you must have many girlfriends in your country.
LAWRENCE Aw, come on.
nah.
You see, my class.
Well, in the U. S. either you have nothing or you have everything, and the women of my class.
well, they're spoiled.
BAR FLY Mmmmmm.
LAWRENCE Whereas your daughter -- See, she's the perfect example.
Born, not with a silver spoon in her mouth, but.
BAR FLY Wooden chop sticks.
LAWRENCE Yes!
Good, that's very good.
Exactly, and that's why she understands the important things, food, shelter, a good life.
BAR FLY That's a very nice watch.
LAWRENCE Thank you.
So kind of you.
A gift from my mother, actually.
Fourteen karat gold, actually.
Not my style at all.
BAR FLY Fine things suit you.
LAWRENCE You think so?
BAR FLY You have thin, aristocratic wrists.
LAWRENCE Oh, stop it.
It'll go to my head.
BAR FLY My friend and I were about to leave.
I like your jacket.
Your sunglasses must be very expensive.
LAWRENCE Hi ho, sir.
Not a bad Cabernet, if I do say so.
Addicted to the nightlife -- that's always been my weakness.
VINCE .
oh, sure, I don't mind needles.

tumor, shmoomer.

experiment?
I like experiments.

gift to science.

nano-augmented transcription -- that'll do the trick!

don't talk, or we'll feed you to the karkians.
ISAAC Beer is 15; wine is 120.
ISAAC Is that so?
What is it about?
ISAAC Are you crazy?
Don't even say that name in here!
ISAAC Ah, the beautiful Miss Maggie.
You'll find the door just behind me.
ISAAC A tourist with a deathwish!
Better just throw yourself in the canal.
Gimme a forty.
Ooops.
Forgot how much I was carrying.
Hold on while I get rid of something.
RUSSIAN SAILOR Shake it!
Hey, Yevgeni!
Yevgeni!
Where is Yevgeni?
Move it!
More!
More!
Again!
Do it again!
Take him to the mamasan!
Come to me, baby!
I SPILL my DRINK!
Out of my face.
Downstairs!
The upstairs is for us!
Tell the mamasan: three more dancing girls.
We will pay!
Enough!
Go!
DANCING GIRL Yeah!
Let's party!
Who wants to dance with me?
Woooo!
MAX CHEN So?
MAX CHEN Is that so?
It was stolen, and she is the one who stole it.
MAX CHEN Preposterous!
MAX CHEN But.
Miss Chow?
She's using you and the Red Arrow for her own ends.
MAX CHEN No, you must be mistaken.
She murders your predecessor, hides the sword, pushes the Red Arrow into a war with the Luminous Path, and then.

What next?
The Triads are weakened, and an outside group seizes power.
Sound far-fetched?
MAX CHEN There must be an explanation.
MAX CHEN Hmmm.
Perhaps.
For now, take them this message: I will stop hostilities until I have completed an investigation.
CHEN'S BODYGUARD Boss.
MAX CHEN What is it?
CHEN'S BODYGUARD Marty at the door says we have trouble.
Soldiers coming in -- she says they are some kind of mechs.
They must have followed me.
MAX CHEN You led them here.
You should have been more careful.
CHEN'S BODYGUARD State your business and go.
You're acting like a fool.
Time for you to go.
MAX CHEN You must escape and reach Gordon Quick.
They should have never attacked us here.
RED ARROW MEMBER It's a military unit!
These troops -- they are not human.
Red Arrow!
MAX CHEN I will not doubt you again.
Now, hurry.
Take my message to the Luminous Path.
If Maggie Chow is still alive, I will kill her myself.
Hurry.
We don't have much time.
TRIAD BOUNCER Stay down!
It's some kind of raid!
Everyone on the floor!
Please excuse the casualties.
We will have the mess cleaned up shortly.
Come back in a few hours.
An attack like this is very unusual.
The Lucky Money is safe.
We will not let it happen again.
ISAAC Everyone stay calm.
Don't shoot!
I'm a civilian!
Someone get Max up here.
DOOR GIRL This is our best night in a long time.
BAR FLY Aaaah!
Somebody stop them!
Someone get me out of here.
SING Don't hurt me!
I'm a government official!
If they catch me here I'm finished!
RUSSIAN SAILOR What is happening?
Run!
The police!
The police!
They say they pay the police, but NO!
The police come anyway!
They shoot, and I run, and I spill my drink ALL OVER MY UNIFORM!
I want my money back.
Why do you bother me?
Yevgeni was the one.
He got us all to come and waste our time!
Hey, Yevgeni!
Yevgeni!
Where is Yevgeni?
What a mess.
a filthy mess!
DAZED GIRL They just keep killing!
And killing!
And killing!
I'm trapped!
I'll never get out of here!
Oh god, it's happening again!
THUG Police raid!
What the hell is going on?
It's a raid!
MAYMAY Aaaaa!
BUSINESSWOMAN The guards!
Why did they come here?
We can relax.
They aren't after us.
I'm going to talk to the head of security when I get back to work.
MERCEDES Everybody get on the floor or something.
Ohmygod!
TESSA Ohmygod!
Where's Russ?
Is he okay?
This really sucks.
LING Aaaaa!
LAWRENCE What?
What did I do?
I mind my own business.
EDDIE WAY There was a shootout.
Please clear the mall.
For your own safety, please stay in Wan Chai market.
There was a terrorist attack on the Lucky Money.
We are investigating.
HONG KONG - MARKET LOUIS PAN I did it!
I did it!
GORDON QUICK Did anybody see?
LOUIS PAN Yeah, I think so.
GORDON QUICK It doesn't matter.
We got her payment -- plus interest.
Get back and see if she learned something.
LOUIS PAN Okay.
LOUIS PAN I told you: bad people around here.
VENDOR Get out of here!
Go!
LOUIS PAN I am your new watchman.
VENDOR You stole a hundred credits from me!
LOUIS PAN The Dragon Head said I am your watchman.
Fifty credits every day.
That's better than a hundred.
VENDOR I can't make a profit as it is.
LOUIS PAN I will do a good job.
Maggie Chow is a con artist.
GORDON QUICK You have proof?
GORDON QUICK Good.
Inform the Red Arrow dragon head.
Then he will see who is the real traitor.
Max Chen has declared a truce between the Red Arrow and the Luminous Path.
He's declared a truce between the Red Arrow and the Luminous Path.
GORDON QUICK A truce?
Are you certain?
I think he would consider forming an alliance.
GORDON QUICK Mr.
Denton, you are the man I hoped you were.
The door is in our sparring room.
He will know what to do next.
I look forward to shaking the hand of my enemy.
I worry that the Red Arrow will try to reassemble the sword before peace can be made.
MEMBER 3 LP MEMBER 1 Um goi jie guo.
Neh hoh mah?
LP MEMBER 2 While you are here, observe the laws of the Triad.
You must have won great favor with the dragon head.
Perhaps you know him.
Watch yourself in the market.
We have lost influence there.
Do not linger in the compound.
You will be permitted to go about your business.
LP MEMBER 3 Do not interrupt us with questions.
We will check with the dragon head about whether you can come in here.
Are you expecting a tour?
BOOK Chinese Silver Loaves 1 3/4 cups hot water 3 T.
sugar 2 T.
vegetable shortening or oil 6 cups plain flour 2 T.
baking powder 1/2 tsp.
salt Add sugar and shortening to hot water, stir til sugar is dissolved, and allow to cool until barely warm.
Sift remaining dry ingredients into a large mixing bowl, and gradually stir in sugar mixture.
Mix well and gradually draw dough together with your hands.
It should be soft, but not sticky.
On a floured board, knead dough about 5-8 minutes, or til smooth and elastic.
Return to bowl, cover with damp cloth and let rise at least 1 hour.
BOOK Journal of Hung Kwan Gordon Quick .
is it the steel in her heart, much like that of her father, that leads me to love her; how unfortunate that the Old Gods should laugh and she should be the child of their Dragon Head -- the man who would lead the Red Arrow against the Luminous Path and destroy all we have sought to create for the Celestial Kingdom.
But I know that whatever fate has decreed for us, we will walk that road together.
There can be no betrayal in the feelings we have for each other, and no teachings that can show me the error in our actions.
Please -- complete your business and then go.
Do not tell anyone how to get to this facility.
Your friend, Alex Jacobson, is here.
So your friend stole a black helicopter.
Very courageous.
You knew my brother, Paul Denton.
You know my brother, Paul Denton.
A reliable man.
So your killswitch has been activated.
The more power you think you have, the more quickly it slips from your hands.
You, like your brother, are an extraordinary piece of technology.
I never pass up the chance to try a new blade, but I fear that at the crucial moment I may lift up my arm to strike and you will twist free of my grasp.
As will your friend, Mr.
Jacobson, a man of much useful knowledge.
He arrived in Hong Kong shortly after you did.
I was forced to keep him in custody until I could verify his identity and his loyalties.
Now -- go down the stairs to the operating platform and I will examine your systems.
Just step inside the chamber.
Stay right there.
Success.
Come back to the control room.
A courageous man, your brother.
Unfortunately, nothing is certain in politics.
He will be fine.
Meanwhile, we still face the likelihood of a Triad war here in Hong Kong.
Not with the sword left to be fought over.
In their system, the sword is a doomsday weapon, a temptation.
We must recover the ROM-encoding from VersaLife and make it available to BOTH Triads.
A little corporate espionage?
Remember -- I saved your life.
Now pay attention.
The VersaLife elevator north of the market will require an employee number; try 06288.
Once inside, find Mr.
Hundley, the shift supervisor.
He can be persuaded to give you access to the labs.
He is the corrupt official who sold the Red Arrow the technology to begin with.
I'll help you as long as we have a mutual interest.
We will have a "mutual interest" for some time.
In fact, I took the liberty of setting up a computer account for you.
Login: JCDenton, password: sanctuary.
Feel free to use the machine in my office.
We have much to offer one another if we cooperate.
I will always remember your brother, a true martyr.
(I need Paul.
I wish he would hurry up.
) Your friend from UNATCO is very knowledgeable about certain networks.
He will be very useful.
I've wanted to learn more about VersaLife for a long time.
As you know, VersaLife manufactures Ambrosia.
More when you return.
Go now.
BOOK Project Dibbuk: Thoughts and Meditations Written by the Honored Ang-Yun Li .
as the Most Dignified of the Celestial Kingdom had expected, inquiries into the nature of MJ12 and the so-called "Project Dibbuk" were quickly declined in an extremely abrupt manner (and resulted in the unfortunate but necessary loss of one humble servant who will be forever exalted in the annals of our organization); however, further perseverance has suggested that the aforementioned project involved the quiet acquisition of Chinese technology that was later applied to the invention of an improved "stealth helicopter" for use in covert MJ12 operations.
A careful examination of electronic traces would lean an astute observer to conclude that this information was liberated during a number of skilled intrusions into Chinese corporate data wells originating from UNATCO headquarters in New York, which in turn leads to certain questions about links between UNATCO and MJ12.
BOOK MJ12 Nano-Augmentation Experiment Series 3-C For Internal Use Only .
recent human trials and subsequent mortality studies have demonstrated that nano-augmenting of baseline human physiology is not without hazards: notably, key anatomical regions can support only limited augmentation without risking rejection or accelerated degeneration.
4347 Subject: Welcome to the Fold Well, I've got your account all set up and you should be ready to go -- everything communications on Tracer's computers are completely ghost encrypted, so even if they go over the standard HKNET there's no way anyone can intercept or read the messages.
I've been talking a lot to Tracer and he's really an amazing person.
I think I can learn a lot from him.
I know you might find this odd, but all the time I worked for UNATCO seems like a dream, killing time in some virtual world so I didn't have to make the hard choices in the real one.
Now I feel like I've finally woken up.
4347 Subject: Required Objectives There is little time.
You should know that the organization for which you have worked, whose goals and interests you believed to be your own, is not what it seems.
UNATCO is merely an arm of a larger entity known as Majestic 12.
Majestic 12 seeks to use force and intimidation to seize absolute control.
Of everything.
They will not hesitate to use all means necessary to achieve this goal, and have engineered the disease you refer to as the "Gray Death" in an effort to accomplish this.
They must not be allowed to succeed.
Your brother has been an aid to me in this matter but cannot help me any longer.
You must take his place.
The Gray Death is a nanotechnologically engineered virus.
You are immune, but others are not.
You must locate the Universal Constructor used to create the Gray Death and destroy it.
My information indicates that it is in Hong Kong, housed in a Majestic 12 facility beneath the corporation known as VersaLife.
You must not fail.
4347 Subject: SitRef They'd fire me on the spot if they knew I was sending you this message, but I've got a feeling they'll be drumming me out any day now as is.
Alex tells me there's no way this communication can be traced, so I trust he knows what the hell he's doing.
I understand why you did it.
Being a soldier isn't just following orders, it's following those orders in the service of a higher cause.
When that cause is betrayed, we're not soldiers anymore -- just pieces on a chess board dying for the wrong reasons.
Things've been bad since you left.
Manderley has disappeared; they say he's been relieved of duty.
The Director of FEMA, Walton Simons, has assumed interim authority, but there's something about him I don't like.
He seems reasonable, but there's something behind his eyes.
I saw the same look on men in combat when all the part of them that was human just left.
I have some friends who used to be associated with UNATCO -- they've disappeared, but I may see if I can find them again.
Maybe they'll be useful to you.
We'll see.
In the meanwhile, do what you think is right, J.C., and let the Devil take the rest.
Thanks.
ALEX When you believe in something, you've just got to do it.
ALEX Turns out I knew him all along: TT//UnderNet.
I posted a message to the board, and he contacted me himself.
ALEX No sign of him yet.
I hope he made it.
Did you ever dig up anything about this "Daedalus" character?
I'm still hearing from him.
ALEX Actually, I did.
sort of.
Crypto says Daedalus was supposedly a government AI project, also known as Echelon IV.
ALEX I'm getting this from anonymous crypto boards.
Daedalus was supposed to beat the old content-recognition?
problem in surveillance; it was a program that could search all the terabytes of intercepted messages for subversive?
content.
ALEX Never panned out, as far as I know.
The problem was just too hard.
They blew through a lot of taxpayer money but finally had to scrap the whole project.
what?
A resurrected AI?
ALEX I wish I knew.
Take the security at VersaLife seriously; they're very protective of their research programs.
VersaLife is one of the few companies that funds basic research in several branches of science.
The corporation doesn't share data with the medical community.
That's why they do so well.
They could make a killing if they released Ambrosia publicly.
Jaime should be in the city by now.
You should scope out the labs for upgrades.
I'll be here to back you up, just like at UNATCO.
HONG KONG - VERSALIFE GUARD 1 If you need help, talk to one of the receptionists.
You do not require a security pass to visit the first three levels of offices.
Late night.
My feet are killing me.
Hope you find who you are looking for.
GUARD 2 Go on up.
You don't have to show ID.
I have to keep watch.
84 Subject: Employee Evaluations I'd like to have your employee evaluations by COB today, with special attention paid to those who've been engaging in non-contributory behavior or who've spread information counter to the ideological well-being of the company.
We'll shortly be rotating you out of the "receptionist" position here and posting you to another branch to continue your observations.
With the continued assistance of you and other trained EACs, we'll be sure to keep VersaLife a sustained, focused company for years to come.
R. Hundley RECEPTIONIST Welcome to VersaLife.
How can I help you?
Hundley.
RECEPTIONIST He's upstairs making his rounds.
Look for a man in a black suit.
RECEPTIONIST We're all out of company brochures.
You missed the psionics people; they went to the Lucky Money.
Don't worry about the attire; we're very laid-back around here.
You must have a security pass to visit the laboratories.
Maybe Mr.
Hundley can show you around.
(sigh) DATACUBE VERSALIFE SECURITY LOG 05:33 -- Richard Hundley enters with empty briefcase.
Verify contents of briefcase upon departure to ensure confidentiality protocols are not in violation.
06:25 -- John Smith enters without sign-in.
Note in disciplinary record and increase electronic surveillance on Smith.
13:14 -- Louis Elban engages in lengthy conversation with receptionist Destiny Savannah, topic or topics unknown.
21:13 -- Unknown individual enters; may possibly match description of "J. C. Denton" referenced in security bulletin 133-B.
Will continue observation and detain if confirmed match.
Where we make tomorrow look like yesterday!
As a new employee, you will eventually be issued your very own individual login and password so that we can better provide information and support tailored to your unique work habits.
However, until all security clearances are completed, you should use the standard data entry login and password: LOGIN: ALL_SHIFTS PASSWORD: DATA_ENTRY Your access will be restricted to non-sensitive documents and company-wide e- mail, but we hope that you will use the opportunity to acclimate yourself to the VersaLife family.
Note that even though you have not received full security authorization, you are still expected to act in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in your employee manual and supplemental agreements.
Thanks, and have a GREAT DAY!
A job such as this demands the commitment and dedication of those few, special individuals with the talent and determination to actually make that happen.
A family.
Your family.
By working together, there is nothing we can't achieve, but if we back off the throttle now it could result in a loss of momentum that would be disastrous.
This is a war.
A war against disease and poverty, and if we're not willing to reach out and support our neighbor in the cubicle across from us, to get in that foxhole with them and jump on that grenade, to make the sacrifices necessary to create truly revolutionary products, then we've already lost.
Negative attitudes will only poison the work environment of all those around you, but by trusting in the VersaLife family you can be sure that your best efforts will be rewarded.
We're already making changes, exciting changes, and I hope to tell you about them in future memos.
R. Hundley BURKETT You with Psionics?
You look like you could have the Gift.
This chemoreceptor patent-proposal is kicking my ass.
Hundley won't let me down until it's done.
Hardly worth filing for, in my opinion.
Who wants to smell the difference between xenon and radon?
This place.
They just want to own anything genetic, any new sequence.
People are feedstock, as far as management cares.
My job is to find ways to add value.
The whole society is built of the factory model, schools, business, media.
move person X through process Y, add capability Z.
Why not clinics?
Guess I better get back to work.
I'm so sick of staring at a computer screen.
WORKER Please address inquiries to my supervisor.
I have work to do.
I can't be bothered.
Go away.
They will think I'm talking to you.
SARAH Please stay out of the work area.
Data entry personnel are not permitted to speak to visitors.
Our employees know the rules and will obey.
Don't make me call security.
56245 Subject: New Orders Recent disturbances among employees require all covert security personnel to be on alert.
Carry your concealed sidearm at all times while maintaining cover.
If employees engage in unauthorized or suspicious activities, you are encouraged to debrief them and pursue appropriate remedies.
MR.
HUNDLEY Mr.
Hundley, Shift Supervisor.
Who might you be?
Quite a facility you have here.
MR.
HUNDLEY Thank you, thank you.
Yes, we're pretty proud of the work we're doing.
MR.
HUNDLEY Oh, no.
I'm afraid not.
Trade secrets and all that.
MR.
HUNDLEY Hmmmm.
2000?
MR.
HUNDLEY Excellent.
The elevator code is 6512.
I'll make sure the security system has granted you a day pass.
MR.
HUNDLEY My honored guest, welcome to VersaLife.
Stay out of the way, and no one will notice you.
Pleasure doing business with you.
I've got to make my rounds.
Let's keep this quiet, okay?
We have a lot of visitors today.
You will not be noticed.
MR.
HUNDLEY Fine, fine.
Just come back when you do.
(MR.
HUNDLEY Ready to make a deal?
2000 for a look at our laboratories?
) WORKER So much for the schedule, right, mate?
Yeah, sure.
WORKER It's swell to miss a day of work, but they bloody hell better push back the delivery.
I know I won't be done.
WORKER At least the superfreighter's on her way to America.
No more special agents nosing about up here.
WORKER You know, the ones in suits with gray skin, eyes tattooed on the backs of their necks.
I'd sure like to know what was in those tanks to make them so uptight.
Didn't get a jot of work done today.
Why bother data-entry?
They had me on a forklift!
Am I just a common laborer?
Wasn't I hired for my expertise?
In a former life I was a mule dragging a stone plow up a hill in Northern Thailand.
I bloody hell refuse to work at gunpoint again.
I'm a professional, goddammit.
That's business in Asia.
A whole superfreighter full of medicine.
Think we'll see any of the money?
Ha.
Guess you've got to pay your dues.
JOHN SMITH What?
JOHN SMITH People are trying to concentrate.
JOHN SMITH That's because they don't want people looking over my shoulder.
JOHN SMITH Huh.
I guess it doesn't matter what I say anymore.
It's because I falsify all their records, okay?
JOHN SMITH So?
I don't care.
I figured it out today, how they do it.
People with my job get the Gray Death.
In a couple of weeks I could be in a camp.
I could already be sick.
JOHN SMITH Whatever's in those labs.
Stuff goes in there, instruments, military personnel.
none of it goes on the record.
Iverson had this job, that's why he got sick.
Chang.
Kiley.
Watts.
Now it's me.
I'll check them out and let you know what I find.
JOHN SMITH Yeah?
Hundley?
He's the guy who keeps me here.
He's dead.
You don't have to worry about him anymore.
JOHN SMITH Really?
You really killed him?
That's the guy they had watching me.
JOHN SMITH You some kind of spy or something?
JOHN SMITH If I get you down there, can you do something for me?
JOHN SMITH Hundley.
Kill him.
I bet you could do it.
You guys have ways to keep from getting caught.
I can give you clearance.
JOHN SMITH Mr.
Hundley checks the logs every five minutes.
I can't do anything while he's around.
JOHN SMITH You what?
I took him out.
Part of an intelligence operation.
JOHN SMITH You mean.
Huh.
But I need clearance, okay?
I killed your boss.
JOHN SMITH You mean.
I'd advise you not to hang around too long.
Now how about getting me into the labs.
2-3.
1 JOHN SMITH Well, okay.
Sure, it doesn't matter to me.
The code to the elevator's 6512.
I'll make sure you have access once you get to the lab.
It's a big operation down there.
Lots of genetics work going on.
That's all I've been able to figure out.
I'll make a break for it after my shift.
I can't leave now because of the cameras.
I hope they don't figure out it was us.
Security passes expire; you better get going.
DATACUBE I think something bad is happening downstairs, but I don't know what.
Yesterday I found a man in the bathroom, dressed in street clothes and raving about.
I don't know what.
Doctors and the things they did to him.
Downstairs, he said, but there is no downstairs.
I don't know how he got into the building.
When I called security a bunch of scary guys in riot armor showed up -- they didn't say anything, just shot him with a dart.
He stopped talking.
Maybe he was dead.
When I tried to get closer they shoved me half-way across the room, like swatting an insect.
My supervisor came.
Questioned me about "loyalty" and "shared objectives with the program.
" Mentioned how dangerous Hong Kong streets were, that security was for my protection, and that it was there to prevent unfortunate incidents.
There are more of the guys in scary riot armor.
They are coming this way.
I think I'll take a restroom break.
01 Subject: Slower Than Pynchon Underlit Publishing is pleased to announce the release of Sheldon Pacotti's previously unpublished first short story collection, "Slower than Pynchon.
" Pacotti's work -- including such modern classics as "Demiurge," "Blue Time in B- Minor," and the award-winning short-story "Calculated Regrets" -- has often been compared to that of a later day Paul Auster or Thomas Pynchon (after whom the short story collection was titled), but with a modern, technological sensibility.
Pacotti was also an integral part of the fabulist revival that has been popularized in the last decade.
The publication marks the first time "Slower than Pynchon" has been made available since its inception, and represents a crucial period in Pacotti's development as a writer.
It will be available for download from www.
sheldonpacotti.
com later today.
01 Subject: Finally Beat It I managed to nail Nethack v54.
1 just a few minutes ago.
Made it past the Astral Plane, and _then_ back in time to work through all of history up to Nethack v3.
3 (this, of course, has been in every version since 48.
2), but after that the game jumped a thousand years into the future and I had to build an entire interstellar trading alliance (with only the Amulet of Yendor) before the aliens from the other side of the black holes showed up.
took me six months to solve that part of the game, and then I finally won.
Check it out: www.
nethack.
org I hear v54.
33 should be about next week.
The plot -- which has been one of the best kept secrets in the biz -- supposedly concerns an ongoing war between ancient secret societies and their struggle to wrest control from an infinitely older and more dangerous foe called simply "Leviathan.
"And hopefully you'll see things -- experience?
things -- you've never had an opportunity?
to experience before.
With this movie I'm really hoping to build an intricate, engrossing tapestry of story and character -- before everything goes horribly awry, of course, and the real fun begins.
" The film, to be produced under the 7 Crows (www.
7crows.
com) banner, should begin shooting this Fall for a Christmas of next year release.
HONG KONG - MJ12 LAB HARRISON You the one they just cleared for Level 1?
that's me.
HARRISON You are welcome to stroll around the laboratories, but respect the work that we do here.
Your security pass can be canceled with no warning.
HARRISON Security is watching through the cameras.
If you cause trouble, an alarm will sound, and the guards won't wait to ask questions.
I'll try not to get in anyone's way.
HARRISON Do not ask the scientists questions.
They are very busy.
The Americans are here, so everyone has to be a little more formal today.
Welcome to the Level 1 laboratories.
Sorry.
We do not give tours.
This is the armory.
Why do you need a weapon?
What are you doing?
We're gonna report this.
The don't let me talk to lab personnel.
I'm on duty.
Carry on with your business.
Keep your security pass with you at all times.
Guess we both have to work late.
Psionics is on Level 2.
I'm ready to knock off.
You lost or something?
DATACUBE Harrison, As per our discussion, I will retain root access.
regarding the other key members of the Weapons Research Team, MChow should be given full access, while the others will be granted only user access until further notice.
Thanks, Dr.
Lundquist DATACUBE Commander Triolet: In order to correct the corrupted security upgrade, it was necessary for me to do a low-level wipe of the entire system and re-install from a virgin back-up.
As a result, the security login and password has been reset to the default MJ12 and SECURITY.
Please change the password at your earliest possible convenience and inform your personnel.
Troy Whittaker MJ12IS, Admin DONOVAN It's really a question of abstraction.
LUNDQUIST Exactly, exactly!
DONOVAN You can't be dealing with this sort of thing on the base-pair level.
LUNDQUIST Essentially what I told Miss Chow.
Tissue augmentation.
it's not a matter of twiddling bits.
DONOVAN We need to stay focused on tools.
LUNDQUIST In principle.
Yes, I agree.
DONOVAN The older scientists don't grasp what it means to have so much data.
LUNDQUIST Still, we have to throw them a bone once in awhile.
DONOVAN With the right software, organism design should be indistinguishable from CAD/CAM.
LUNDQUIST We'll whip up another non-Mendelian.
They loved the karkians.
DONOVAN We're having an important discussion.
LUNDQUIST You with the American team?
Have a look around.
The project is finally starting to heat up.
Just talking shop.
Never mind us.
Tell Simons we're close.
Very close.
Aren't you supposed to be downstairs?
DATACUBE Dr.
Harrison, I was running a regression analysis on the UC, and it appears we have a serious error that could result in uncontrolled replication.
Until a new version of the control system can be tested, I've installed a temporary patch that will initiate a cascading shutdown sequence -- this will also destroy the UC in the process, so use only in emergency.
The code is 525.
Ops says the new system should be online within 72 hours, so stick to low yield runs until then.
Dr.
Lundquist VARGAS It is a simple request.
TRELLAINE Lab procedure forbids.
VARGAS The Psionics Laboratory -- TRELLAINE The Psionics Laboratory has no business worrying about weak interactions between incidental subatomic particles.
VARGAS Our work on Fitjov Capra -- TRELLAINE Capra.
A quantum quack.
VARGAS Don't criticize what you don't understand.
Scientific progress depends upon collaboration.
TRELLAINE Maybe you should cross your legs, hum to yourself, and try to read my mind.
VARGAS The sharing of data between departments should be automatic.
TRELLAINE VersaLife did not achieve one-trillion credit equity by disclosing R&D materials.
VARGAS We work in the same building!
TRELLAINE Our results can be understood only by a few dozen people on the planet, none of whom are "Psionics Engineers.
" VARGAS I'm trying to talk here.
How rude!
Stop interrupting.
TRELLAINE This is a private conference.
One of yours.

Really.
We have reserved the room for the next two hours.
LAB ASSISTANT I am not allowed to speak to visitors.
Do not interfere with the experiment.
I cannot answer any of your questions.
I am working.
We are being observed.
The special agents are here to enforce policy.
Go about your own business.
Miss Chow will inspect the facility shortly.
Do not pry into the research of other groups.
The boss is here from the United States.
He is very hard to impress.
DATACUBE Mark, We received that augmentation canister you were waiting on -- I had it put in suspension in the magnetic testing chamber, code 5878.
Let me know once you get results of the test.
Thanks, Dr.
Lundquist DATACUBE Dr.
Lundquist: The new server node for the Weapons Research Team is now active and user permissions have been set as you asked.
The master password for this node is DAMOCLES.
Please let me know if you need anything else.
- Harrison DATACUBE Dr.
Bates: I've just finished supervising the refit of the superfreighter fuel tanks to transport the virus -- this stuff should really be shipped in suspension crates, but I know you'll want to rapidly offload it once it reaches New York.
The biocontamination seals will _not_ last past 36 hours, however, and a complete Level 4 sterilization of the tanks will need to occur once the virus is offloaded to insure that there's no incidental release.
I integrated some sealed pumping units into the tanks, so you should just be able to use standard YHU55 couplers and A0 micron hoses for the transfer to the helicopters.
But tell Simons I'd still have everyone in hazmat suits the whole time.
Dr.
Lundquist MICHALOPOLIS You must be with Simons' office.
Be sure that he understands: we're doing the best we can.
That apparatus in the center is for magnetic containment, kind of like a tokamac.
You look lost.
A crude device, not very secure.
Self-replication is handled downstairs in a separate facility.
They've already had some success with the new version in Biotech..
trying out new coat-proteins that resemble common phospholipids.
DR. BATES I don't want to be disturbed.
I have two words for whoever wrote this biometrics package: user interface.
I have to concentrate.
Somebody's going to have to totally gut this thing and start over.
How do they expect to express a high-level feature in a genome if they can't even come up with a topologically sound representation?
That's enough.
I really must work.
90 Subject: Virus Shipment The initial virus shipment has been loaded aboard the superfreighter and is currently in transit; preliminary data from its airborne dissemination over New York, Washington, D. C. , and other urban targets will be forwarded to you within forty-eight hours.
We would like to see at least a 92% effectiveness of the weaponized particles in all future shipments, with a target of 95% effectiveness within eight weeks.
We will also need to insure that sufficient reserves of Ambrosia are on hand to meet projected requirements -- verify that the current calculations remain accurate and reflect the most recent casualty/infection estimates.
90 Subject: Series P Agents (Overview) The Series P trials have so far produced excellent results, and I continue to believe that our physiopharmaceutical approach to agent augmentation to be superior to mechanical augmentation -- and possibly even equivalent to nanotech augmentation -- at a fraction of the cost and effort.
The Series P agents show a marked lack of pain response with a corresponding increase in endurance and strength, while psychological conditioning has resulted in a Loyalty Estimate of 9.
66 on the Yitzhak Scale.
The modified explosive self-termination switch added in Series N has also proven highly effective in eliminating all traces of the Series P in the event that they are mortally wounded or otherwise unable to complete their mission objectives.
We're continuing in our attempts to isolate the source of the albino traits, but so far the simple addition of sunglasses and dark clothing appear to have resolved the problem in a practical fashion.
-- Dr.
90 Subject: RE: NEB Trials MLundquist wrote: >>Simons has requested that we equip some of >>the Series P agents with prototype >>Non-Eutactic Blades, prior to their mass >>production, so that additional functional data >>can be generated.
I've also been I've distributed several to the Series P we've already got in the building -- I know that project is Arthur's baby, but those suits and sunglasses give me the creeps.
Our second prototype run of NEBs was shipped to Simons for distribution this morning.
I still can't believe those gangsters managed to intercept the original one- off.
" Can't wait to rotate out of this place and back to the States.
Drinks sound good.
See ya tomorrow.
8723 Subject: Report We have observed suspicious activity near the Luminous Path compound: a black helicopter and a foreigner asking a number of questions about the Path and their leader.
I suggest caution until we can ascertain his motives.
I will order some of our brothers to maintain watchful eye on him.
You should likewise be on your guard.
1, PARAGRAPHS D THROUGH E.
A rogue operative, codenamed "J. C. Denton," has fled the United States and is believed to be en route to Hong Kong.
All agents and other operatives are warned that he is dangerous and is to be treated with extreme prejudice.
Do not attempt to engage; report all sightings to Agent Gunther Hermann at GHermann//UNATCO.
8723 Subject: Triad Control I have reviewed your latest report concerning the theft of the prototype sword and subsequent recovery efforts; you are to be commended for your swift response and exploitation of the theft to escalate tensions between the major Triads.
The resulting struggle will obviously weaken the native power structure, and I have already ordered an increased MJ12 presence to be placed under your command for local operations.
Solidifying our control over Hong Kong is a necessary first step in bringing the recalcitrant Chinese authorities to heel.
Couple of issues I want to whiteboard are their ability to spontaneously generate radiation as a form of "attack," and their apparent resistance to a number of environmental conditions.
We've still trying to resurrect all the information from the old Dreamland data wells, but we have managed to extract a complete genetic sequence from the old bovine experiments that have given us two viable test subjects.
They've been isolated in a radioactive field downstairs for observation if you want to work up your informal impressions prior to the meeting.
BTW, we still haven't heard from Feng about the karkian eggs -- we've got the Hong Kong police out looking for him now, but we'll need to push back our planned infant karkian development studies until we hear something.
Thanks, Dr.
00 Subject: Upgraded Commando Specs You were asking for the specs of our new commando units this morning, so I've attached the relevant files.
The short version is that most of the improvement in combat effectiveness comes from enhancements to their power armor developed here and in our labs in Zurich.
The new armor (we've nicknamed it "Obsidian") has greatly expanded possibilities as a light weapons platform, while a layer of microcore foam insulation disperses heat from flame and plasma attacks.
It's obviously invulnerable to any kind of gas or toxicological attack, as well.
Makes it perfect for riot control and NBS battlefields.
Beauty of it is the whole thing's powered by standard bioelectric cells.
I love it when you can just pull this stuff off the shelf.
Anyways, let me know if you've got any more questions.
07 Subject: NEB Trials Simons has requested that we equip some of the Series P agent with prototype Non-Eutactic Blades, prior to their mass production, so that additional functional data can be generated.
I've also been assured by Ms.
Chow that the stolen NEB has been recovered from the Triads and our security procedures updated accordingly.
Please let me know ASAP when the prototype NEBs can be distributed.
Let's grab some drinks tomorrow night.
Anne's been bugging me to get out more often and with the kid on the way I might as take advantage of it before I'm up all night with the newborn.
Thanks, Dr.
Lundquist SECURITY I don't recall being informed of any visitors.
Your activities here have been noted.
We will have many questions to ask your department head.
The directive provided very specific instructions for you to follow.
Your purpose for being here remains unclear.
I will be consulting your file.
Make sure you have the proper clearance.
Let the scientists work.
Don't touch anything.
VersaLife has strict policies regarding visitors.
If in doubt, don't take the chance.
Stand to the side, out of the pathway.
Please return to your work area.
I think you're lost.
Hey, what're you doing in here?
These are private quarters.
Get out before one of us throws you out.
I've been watching over your fat asses all day.
I don't want to do it during my break.
Hey, buddy, who do you think you are?
We're gonna write this up.

think you OWN us.
Who are you, anyway?
What are you doing here?
This posting sucks.
This thing chafes like the mother.
They say the guy's got some new kind of implants.
Another damn loyalty check.
Getting too old for this.
BOB PAGE The process is going smoothly, then?
MAGGIE CHOW Better than we expected.
The array of reaction modules has allowed the UC to perform multiple constructions in parallel.
BOB PAGE Wonderful.
We'll have to try that trick at Area 51.
MAGGIE CHOW The problem, you understand, is primarily a security concern.
BOB PAGE Never mind that punk from UNATCO.
The security here is adequate, and we have a long-term program guaranteed to make him irrelevant.
We call it Icarus.
MAGGIE CHOW Icarus?
BOB PAGE A sweet bit of engineering.
You'll like it, but we can't talk here.
Your office?
MAGGIE CHOW No time.
Tell me on the way.
BUM (laughs) .
I'm the Captain here!
Sold!
Wee-hee!
Mutiny!
KOHL I'm afraid we don't have time for visitors right now.
Please.
you'll upset the subject.
This one did better than most, but he's very excitable.
The neural tissue, in particular, failed to express certain proteins.
Really, you should go.
Irregular nitrin expression, you understand.
No immune response, however.
That should get us another big check from Walton Simons, don't you think?
I've told them before: new neurons aren't the answer.
We need to reconfigure what's already there.
Get back to your cage!
I have uploaded the component the Triads need to complete the sword.
Go to the temple next to the market.
I will bring together the dragon heads for a meeting.
Do you know what they're doing?
JOHN SMITH Something with genetics and nanotech.
That's all I know.
I can't tell you any more than that.
HONG KONG - MARKET GORDON QUICK Let us be quiet.
Agent Denton from America has retrieved the software component.
Please accept our gratitude.
GORDON QUICK Begin.
MAX CHEN As the faces of a perfect blade are reflections of one another, as they join together to make a perfect edge.

so we shall form one blade, not the male and female swords of Gangjiang, one which must avenge the other, but one weapon, precise in its purpose though wielded by many arms.
GORDON QUICK And much as this steel sharpens its edge and anneals its own surfaces, let us preserve -- together -- the form of our traditions.
MAX CHEN .
the only enduring work of man, that which is born again with the next generation.
GORDON QUICK Forever!
MAX CHEN Forever!
GORDON QUICK Again, accept our thanks, Mr.
Denton.
You will have to join us for drinks at the Lucky Money later tonight.
In the meantime, Mr.
Maybe I'll stop by.
MAX CHEN Come join us for drinks at the Lucky Money.
We must celebrate!
At last -- we are one Triad.
You have rendered us a most valuable service.
The peace will be profitable for both sides.
MONK All right!
Get out!
Enough games in the temple!
The grandfathers of the Triads all had Uzis.
Tradition.
Bah!
It is not the way of the Buddha to idolize a material possession.
I foresee they will understand their error only at the end, facing death, when it is no longer possible to worship the Samsaric world.
Go away!
HONG KONG - LUCKY MONEY CLUB LING I cannot.
I am not allowed.
Time is up.
One customer twice.
not allowed.
Satisfied?
Yes?
RA MEMBER 1 They say there is a German-speaking man looking for you.
He smashed up a bar in Wan Chai.
Now the police cannot take sides.
The new swords will be in production soon.
With our connections and the Path's facility we will make millions.
If you stay in Hong Kong, you will be a rich man.
RA MEMBER 2 We are in your debt.
MAX CHEN At last -- we are one Triad.
GORDON QUICK My good friend.
Let me express my gratitude.
A bottle of wine, on me.
Yum sing!
The Lieutenant.
We had to go through the Precinct Sergeant.
MAX CHEN A cordial relationship, as I would describe it.
GORDON QUICK You had him in your back pocket all the time.
MAX CHEN Only one of many important officials loyal to the Red Arrow.
And, you have the capacity for.
large shipments?
GORDON QUICK Any product, any port of origin, any destination.
MAX CHEN I might have some items, a certain segment of inventory.
GORDON QUICK The Luminous Path can ship penguins to Norway -- and document that they came from Japan.
MAX CHEN Your operations must have been difficult without official protection.
GORDON QUICK A minor inconvenience.
Not as difficult as you must have found running a business without distribution.
MAX CHEN Not even noticeable.
The Red Arrow makes many big deals.
GORDON QUICK I will show you what big is.
Fifty tons per month!
With no help from the big officials.
MAX CHEN This is my club.
Let me give you one of our better wines: an imported vintage from Napa Valley.
A rare man.
the maker of peace.
Please.
Enjoy yourself.
You are my guest at the Lucky Money.
GORDON QUICK But if you want a truly excellent wine, you should try this Beaujolais from the Moulin a Vent region of France.
Rest for now.
You deserve it.
Your name will be recorded, for all time, in the annals of the Luminous Path.
A trifle.
Don't mention it.
MAX CHEN The peace you have created between our two Triads is a truly precious gift.
Please accept our finest vintage, a Chianti from a private winery in Quercegrossa, Italy -- 2015.
Yum Sing!
Let us drink in your honor.
The Triads have united.
DRUNK That is impossible!
Ask the people.
The Red Arrows have thrown off the outside agents that were using them against the Chinese government.
DRUNK No one uses the Triads.
They are Chinese societies.
And now they are one society.
DRUNK Impossible!
Max Chen had nothing to gain from the truce.
Luminous Path is small.
Insignificant.
I don't want to discuss!
This must be part of Chen's plan for China.
Anything you like, twelve credits.
Now my profits go to buy red jerseys as well as white ones.
I have a permit from the city of Hong Kong to run my business.
The police should see to it that I am protected.
LP MEMBER 1 I cannot believe the news.
The Triads are one.

Please accept the gratitude of the Luminous Path.
I want to learn more about the terms of the peace.
LP MEMBER 2 I will believe this news of the truce when I hear it from the dragon head.
We must be certain that you are not an agent of the Red Arrow.
This might all be a deception.
One can never be too careful with the Red Arrow.
Vows are one thing; deeds are another.
At least the truth is known.
Maggie Chow made us all look like fools.
We received the news about Paul.
How unfortunate.
(I suppose you spoke with your brother.
I am pleased that he made it.
) The truce will be uneasy, but we will do our part.
Please.
take what you need for your next assignment.
We begin to operate from a position of strength.
We will start manufacturing the swords and distributing them to our allies.
VersaLife was crawling with troops.
I think they were hiding more than sword technology down there.
Paul and I concluded that VersaLife does the manufacturing, while the real research takes place in North America.
It would seem we still have a mutual interest.
If you went back -- and gained access to the Level 2 labs -- perhaps you would find something on the Gray Death.
Your brother's failure in New York has left me with nothing.
I sent an agent in that way once.
She turned up a keycode to the nanotech research wing: 55655 -- but no data.
He did some of the basic research that went into your implants.
You might take a look, if you don't mind going for a dive.
I will monitor your progress from here.
ALEX I've been checking out the schematics you found.
That's one hell of a sword.
It's a generally accepted tenet of nanotechnology that nanites and traditional metals don't mix, but VersaLife found a way.
It all seems completely obvious to me now.
They actually embed iron rods in the carbon framework of the nanites -- electromagnets which allow microscopic scanners, cleaners, and hammers to move over the surface of the blade.
I'd like to know what else VersaLife has going on down there.
I just hope he can be trusted.
I'll be right here if you need me.
HONG KONG - MJ12 LAB DAEDALUS I require that you access the Level 2 laboratories.
HONG KONG - NANO MANUFACTURING DATACUBE Note to self: all tests on the emergency doors around that gizmo they've got downstairs check out, tell Dr.
Lundquist not to worry -- it'll seal off access to all but maintenance personnel.
Door seal code: 768.
DAEDALUS There is a device in here called a Universal Constructor.
It is one of the only two devices in the world capable of producing the nanomechanical virus called the "Gray Death.
" I require you to destroy it.
Use the code 525.
If you find it, I can upload the data I need through your infolink.
This storage area would be a logical place to find a stockpile of the virus.
I don't know why it's so empty.
The system we're looking for is in the laboratory up ahead.
Got it.
Looks like you stumbled on more than the schematics.
You better get out of there.
More in a second.
DAEDALUS The Universal Constructor is in this facility.
MAGGIE CHOW Bad move, Agent.
What did you expect -- that they would arrest me?
Turns our you're on your way to being one of Hong Kong's most wanted yourself.
MAGGIE CHOW I have always been one of the "most wanted.
" I will deal with the police the way I deal with the slanderous press.
MAGGIE CHOW Precisely the way I am going to deal with you.
DAEDALUS Success.
Viral production has been terminated.
Containment protocols have sealed off the entrance.
You will have to exit through the effluent pipes in the floor of the chamber.
Beware of biotoxic concentrations.
The entire stockpile has been loaded onto a superfreighter going to New York.
Interesting.
the previous owner of the ship was Stanton Dowd.
Ever heard of the Illuminati?
Come back to the compound.
I have much to tell you.

tracking down this Dowd connection.
Illuminati fingerprints all over the sterics -- I'm talking about the molecule's shape: 17 segments, 23 coupling points.
Only Illuminati technicians use sleeve bearings with 34-fold and 46- fold symmetry; multiples of 17 and 23.
The birth of Adam Weishaupt.
Not a coincidence.
I was looking for a way back to the market.
PERSON You are American?
Did they throw you in the canal?
PERSON You should not be down there.
Once I saw a thing like a shark, but with four legs.
It lives in a pipe that comes from VersaLife.
PERSON You will have to swim.
If you see other divers, stay away.
Some Europeans are hunting for treasure in the tunnel that fell in -- bad men.
HONG KONG - MARKET VENDOR Yes?
VENDOR The truce will not last.
VENDOR They are always fighting.
The only tradition that stays pure.
May I help you?
VENDOR Exaggerated.
They will not prove it.
VENDOR There will be an explanation.
The police know how to protect good citizens from such attacks.
VENDOR Then her murderer will be brought to justice.
Have a good day.
I will continue to pay tribute to the Red Arrow -- and no one else!
Maggie Chow has always survived the attacks of her critics.
Read what you like.
A truce will be bad for the police, too.
Bad for revenue.
MEMBER 3 LP MEMBER 1 Max Chen and Gordon Quick are celebrating at the Lucky Money.
You are invited for drinks.
Hurry.
We are afraid the police will follow you here.
LP MEMBER 2 So it is certain.
The Triads are at peace.
The dragon heads are getting drunk together at the Lucky Money.
You have earned our trust.
You name will be entered into the history of the Luminous Path.
LP MEMBER 3 Um goi jie guo.
Neh hoh mah?
We cannot believe the news of the superfreighter.
Something must be done.
You have done much for the Triads.
Now the hard work begins.
You?
You cut it pretty close.
Looks like I'll be living in Hong Kong for a couple of months.
Any permanent damage?
You'll be on your own for awhile.
I hear you've already been keeping busy.
Turns out VersaLife had a Universal Constructor; they were synthesizing the virus right here.
Not a cheap gizmo.
Without the people -- well, you need something to use against them.
Hey, do me a favor.
Get better.
I'm still pretty weak.
You'll have to go on to New York without me.
Gunther's in the field now.
They say he wants your head.
Heads are starting to roll at UNATCO.
Kaplan.
Berry.
Not sure who else.
I was risking my life in there.
Denton.
They're quite real, though not as powerful as they were at the beginning of the century.
I know a few of the former leaders.
Plus Beth DuClare, Morgan Everett.
most of them in Paris, I understand.
I will contact him in New York.
Hopefully he will agree to meet you.
That's enough virus to infect a continent.
Find Dowd and see if he knows where the ship is going or how we can stop it.
In any case it is time you left Hong Kong; there is word of a UNATCO agent searching for you here.
A German, they say.
Augmented.
I'll deal with him myself.
Do you have what you need to synthesize a cure?
in time.
I should have known.
but I did it on the advice of the hacker, Daedalus.
Who is he, really?
Alex says he may be an AI, part of an old government program.
The thought occurred to me, but more likely it is cover for a real human being.
I don't like mysteries, but at least he appears to be on our side.
Daedalus.
That sounds very familiar.
I wish your brother was here; he would see that he was wrong about you.
My guess is that Majestic 12 is a faction of the Illuminati which did away with its parent.
All I know is that something terrified Dowd and Everett.
Once two of the most powerful people on earth, now the old Illuminati heads are afraid even to be seen in public.
Be careful in New York.
They'll be waiting for you.
Your brother will recover soon; he got there just in time.
We wish you luck in America.
JAIME REYES And just in time.
I hear Simons had me on his black list.
I'm glad that you're safe.
JAIME REYES I slipped out right after your escape.
Security was a shambles, so I brought you a little something from the supply closet.
JAIME REYES It was worth it -- trust me.
They gave me a funny look in customs, but I managed to bring over an augmentation upgrade canister.
" JAIME REYES I just told them that I do business with VersaLife.
"VersaLife" seems to be a magic word in Hong Kong.
JAIME REYES Take the upgrade.
I'm just glad I can help.
Now hang tight for a while.
UNATCO will be looking for you.
JAIME REYES Gunther went berserk after you escaped, smashed up the cell block pretty bad.
I had to sedate him.
I'm going to stay in Hong Kong until this all blows over.
I've had my excitement for the year.
And to think -- I interviewed at VersaLife.
I could have had a job in one of those labs.
Thanks for getting me out of UNATCO.
ALEX Jaime had a close call getting out of UNATCO, but I'm sure glad he made a break for it.
Quite a lot of data you brought in.
A lot to study.
It's not even a real virus.
Kind of a hybrid of viral proteins and nanomechanical machine parts.
A long body like a dragon fly.
Sockets built into the shaft, saucer-shaped modules plugged in here and there.
A general-purpose device of some kind, very customizable.
Infection would be a ludicrously simple task for such a complicated machine.
Ambrosia turns out to be one of the saucer-shaped modules, a hardware-lock of some kind.
We could replicate the Ambrosia functionality, but to actually destroy the nano- virus.
I don't know.
You go after that shipment.
So we have to dig up Stanton Dowd?
You know him?
JOCK I heard a few things.
I think Harley Filben knows how to contact him.
I always thought Filben was pulling my leg about the Illuminati, though.
Let's not waste any time.
NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN JOCK We think Filben is in the area.
Looks like UNATCO brought in a lot of armor.
Be careful down there, JC.
You need to get to the Underworld Tavern and make contact with Harley Filben.
He is one of Dowd's aides and he will set up the meeting.
Follow his instructions.
A problem, JC.
Rioting in Manhattan has been so bad that the city's fallen under martial law.
At this hour the troops will shoot on sight, and I'm showing several guards and a robot near the hotel.
Keep your head down.
BUM Stay out of the street.
Cops shoot at ANYTHING.
Not too many places left to hide.
The bots shoot anything that don't have a uniform.
Saw one of the bots cut down an old lady and her groceries.
Man, that ain't right.
NEWSPAPER !
=!
==!
=== MIDNIGHT SUN ===!
==!
=!
Food of the Gods?
NEW YORK -- Ambrosia, the mythical food of the gods, may in fact be something more than a myth -- it may be a cure for the mysterious "Gray Death" that has infected this city with sickening dread over the past several months.
What is this Ambrosia, and where does it come from?
Speaking on the condition of anonymity, highly placed sources have revealed in an exclusive to the "Midnight Sun" that Ambrosia is the government codename for a cure to the plague that has already taken so many lives.
Unfortunately, the current manufacturing process appears to yield only small amounts of Ambrosia which have so far been prioritized for ranking government officials and a select group of industry leaders.
"It's a matter of money and connections," said one source.
"There simply isn't enough to go around.
" If such allegations are true then it goes far beyond the terrible events of recent memory: it is evidence of systemic corruption that rises to the highest ranks of President Mead's administration, a callous disregard for human life that must -- and will -- be opposed!
-- Joe Greene, Senior Staff Writer DRIFTER .
a damn ghost town.
You better not try nothin'.
Hey -- let me breathe.
Okay?
Whatsa army proteck 'cep itself?
Man said protection: this is occupation!
NYC - UNDERWORLD TAVERN FILBEN UNATCO's put a price on your head.
What're you doing in the city?
FILBEN People know the government has a vaccine.
Riots everywhere.
FILBEN I never mentioned.
I've been working for the NSF all along -- and the Illuminati.
I'm on your side.
I need to find one of their leaders, Stanton Dowd.
A load of plague virus is on its way to New York.
FILBEN Virus?
You mean the Gray Death?
What's Dowd got to do with it?
Quite convenient.
The virus came over in a superfreighter previously owned by Dowd.
FILBEN Yeah, most of Majestic 12 is just hand-me-downs from the Illuminati.
Huh.
We knew about Ambrosia, but the virus.
that's news.
They're infecting people on purpose, huh?
FILBEN I'll contact him.
Go to the burnt-up storefront of Osgood and Sons, over where the tunnels connect to the warehouse district -- you know, where the NSF had the generator.
I'll try to get him to meet you there.
FILBEN Yeah.
And, JC.
Be careful who you mention the Illuminati to.
like Joe Greene.
He's a spy for UNATCO.
Are you sure?
FILBEN Here's the proof.
Hey.
Kill Greene and you'll be doing all of us a favor.
I saw him hanging around the free clinic.
I don't like people who ask a lot of questions.
FILBEN No shit.
Man, you really did change sides.
Never would've thought it possible.
Thanks for getting rid of that guy.
They're dropping like flies.
) FILBEN Dowd doesn't like to be contacted directly.
You'll have to trust me.
Greene doesn't know who I really work for, so I managed to get him talking.
Apparently they promised Greene some kind of position in Washington.
Someone will meet you in the alley.
I guess UNATCO shot it up pretty bad.
SANDRA No use worrying about it now.
Are you all right?
I heard UNATCO was after you.
SANDRA You should stay out of Hell's Kitchen.
People have been looking for you.
SANDRA This one guy -- he came to the hotel and said he was your cousin.
SANDRA Just an average guy, but I think he was an undercover cop.
SANDRA That's Vinny.
He went to my high school.
SANDRA Vinny?
Oh, sure.
He's a good guy.
Kinda simple, but he's a good guy.
SANDRA They guy who was looking for you.
I think he was wearing a gray jacket.
I feel sorry for Vinny; they almost never give him leave.
You don't want to be in New York, not since the riots.
It's turning into a big prison camp.
JORDAN What do you want?
Prices have tripled to 30 because of martial law.
JORDAN What do you want with Dowd?
Know where I can find him?
JORDAN I'm gonna say this once.
That German mech from UNATCO already came by looking for you.
You got money to spend, fine; this curfew's killing me, but leave me out of your business.
That guy's oiled up and ready for a fight.
JORDAN Do you want something or not?
1-2.
1 JORDAN There.
I didn't know they were using Marines.
VINNY Nah, UNATCO likes to work alone.
Just came out to look up a girl I used to know -- that girl at the table over there -- Sandra Renton.
FEMA gave me a pass for the curfew.
VINNY Nah, UNATCO likes to work alone.
Just came out to look up a girl I used to know, Sandra Renton.
FEMA gave me a pass for the curfew.
VINNY I know, I know.
Just my luck.
VINNY They took over the Advanced Submarine Base where I work.
I don't like being pushed off-duty, but I guess a little R&R never hurt anyone.
VINNY Most of us were moved out of the main submarine hangar last night.
FEMA's set up a perimeter.
We'd sure like to know what's going on in there.
Maybe I'll check it out for you.
VINNY You a cop?
VINNY I'll say it straight: I'm a patriot.
I don't like to see one of our top-secret bases commandeered, especially when the only people allowed inside are these Asian mafia-types.
You think you can do something about it, I can have my buddies at the front gate let you slip by.
My name's Vinny.
Tell 'em you know me.
I'll see what I can find out.
VINNY Us Americans, the last of a dying breed.
We've got to stick together.
I don't know why we let so many crooks run this country.
We know a cover-up when we see one.
VINNY Yeah, because they know there ain't no emergency and they have no reason to be out there.
I asked one of the guys, "So what's the emergency?
Why's FEMA here?
" He said, "You ask one more question, the emergency's going to be you.
" That's how they talk to you.
I saw Walton Simons himself get out of a helicopter on the roof of the hangar.
They gave us all leave because they don't want anybody around tonight.
NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN DAEDALUS Incorrect inform -- ps -al : attach.
Streets clear.
No danger.
3908 Subject: Stay Home I'm going to talk to the staff individually, but if the riots are as bad tomorrow as they were today then I want you to stay home.
This place is starting to feel a lot like a war zone, only I'm not sure who the enemy is and I'm afraid it might be us.
In any case, I'm going to leave the clinic open -- what few supplies we had have been removed, and the place might at least provide some shelter for those who need it.
If I'm able to make it in tomorrow, I'll tend to those here as best I can.
3908 Subject: What's Going ON?
I don't know if this mail will find you or not -- it's been bounced a couple of times off the New York Net, but I keep trying, hoping it's temporary downtime and not something permanent.
There's been an almost total black-out of news from New York City, just talk about terrorists and martial law -- last thing I saw on broadcast was some smuggled footage of these black helicopters and soldiers in riot gear.
It looked like a war.
The President came on and said that it was only temporary, that it was "necessary to protect our way of life," I think that was it.
afterwards one of the other grad students here started making plans to move to Lagos, even got a passport.
I began to wonder if he might not have the right idea.
No one can get through to you on the phone, and we're all just hoping you're okay.
As soon as you can, call us or write or do whatever you have to do.
I'll be thinking about you.
* * * LIZ * * * NURSE The clinic is closing.
If you're having an emergency, please see one of the bots.
The doctors have gone home.
The plague vaccine is just a rumor.
We have no such thing here.
You can sleep on the couch until the police open the streets.
I said you can stay; now leave me alone.
IKE Hey!
Hey, Coleman!
How're you holdin' up?
COLEMAN I'm fine.
Just fine.
IKE Come on, we're safe in here.
COLEMAN How long are we gonna safe, Ike?
They're just shooting people for no reason.
IKE Don't you worry, this'll all pass.
COLEMAN Sure it will.
IKE Smart man, stayin' off the streets.
All those cops.
actin' like they're invadin' a foreign country.
I hear they've got a cure -- that's what people are sayin'.
Heard it from Smuggler.
Keepin' it all to themselves.
What happened to this damn country?
Keeps goin' from bad to worse.
You stay in here.
Mostly no one bothers us in here.
You got the look on you, a man whose runnin' out of friends.
Maybe it'll be better in the morning.
COLEMAN Goddamn, but I'm tired of living like this.
I saw the cops shoot someone right in front of me.
It's not like television.
It's just a pop, and then there's some blood on the ground.
They said that martial law was only temporary, but it doesn't feel very temporary to me.
Ike thinks they've got a cure, but there's not enough for everyone -- that's why the soldiers are out there.
Protecting the cure.
At the kitchen they told me I should repent my sins, but I don't know what I did wrong.
Least I don't have the plague.
You ever been to Paris?
I'd like to see Paris.
JOE GREENE A spy?
For whom?
JOE GREENE So.
am I working for the CIA or FBI?
JOE GREENE Either way, they'd have me wearing a better suit.
Something newsworthy about the clinic tonight?
JOE GREENE I interviewed the doctors: poker-faced as politicians.
Don't even blink when you say the word Ambrosia.
JOE GREENE I'm serious.
Don't you believe the stories coming out of Hong Kong, that the government had a cure all along?
Hey -- you're a reporter.
Heard the name Stanton Dowd?
JOE GREENE Dowd?
Sure.
Used to be a big importer, right?
Thinking of starting a business?
JOE GREENE In some kind of trouble?
JOE GREENE Afraid I don't know how to contact him.
I thought he was dead, actually.
I figured you were up to no good.
Stanton Dowd.
haven't heard that name in a long, long time.
Never met Dowd myself.
JOE GREENE They've got PROOF.
They found the cure.
It's called Ambrosia.
JOE GREENE Har-har.
Check the public terminals.
It was a big day in the news.
Wish I'd been the one to get the scoop on Ambrosia.
I bet someone already has a book deal on the cover-up.
You work for UNATCO.
JOE GREENE Guess you scooped me this time.
NEWSPAPER Beth DuClare Awarded Legion of Honor APR - Paris, France Beth DuClare, millionaire, philanthropist, activist -- and famously reputed to be the mistress of French President Alain Bourges-Maunoury -- was today posthumously awarded the position of Chevalier in the Ordre Royale de la Legion D'Honneur.
Created by Napoleon Bonaparte on May 19, 1802, the Legion of Honor is an order of merit to which all qualifying military personnel and civilians can be nominated without regard to birth or religion, provided that they swear to uphold liberty and equality.
The award was not without some controversy, as members of the Republican Social Union for French Democracy (RSUFD) party disputed the merit based on her involvement in the "Somnolente Ile" scandal that rocked the Serra administration five years ago.
Beth DuClare passed away in September, found dead at her chateau of natural causes.
She was survived by her daughter, Nicolette DuClare, who has been missing since her mother's death.
Police currently have no leads as to her whereabouts.
The award was accepted on Beth DuClare's behalf by President Bourges-Maunoury.
3908 Subject: RE: Weekly Report I appreciate your update, but I'll be frank with you: the situation is deteriorating faster than you know, and the Board is completely paralyzed.
That 10 million credit donation promised by Page is nowhere to be seen.
Two-thirds of the staff haven't shown up to work in the last few days.
Rumors are starting to surface that there may be a cure for the Gray Death, and what few supply runs we've managed have been attacked by rioters who think we're hoarding it -- the media has been absolutely irresponsible, stirring people up into a frenzy.
UNATCO troops set up shop here yesterday, calling the whole thing a "peacekeeping occupation" and monitoring all medical traffic: when certain individuals come into any of the clinics for treatment, they're immediately rounded up.
I'm not sure who's running the show anymore.
If you get this message, do whatever you need to do, up to and including shutting down the clinic.
First priority should be the safety of you and your staff.
I'm not sure how we can help anymore.
In an effort to insure that you have the latest, most accurate news, FEMA will be sending you periodic bulletins; only stories officially verified and approved by FEMA should be trusted.
First and foremost, I can put an end to one rumor and emphatically state there is NO cure for the "Gray Death" at present.
Government scientists are working day and night to find a treatment, but any stories referencing a secret government cure are outright lies of the most vicious sort.
Future bulletins will follow.
Please feel free to contact your nearest FEMA or UNATCO representative if you have any further questions.
But always, be safe.
Sincerely, Dr.
Allred NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN THUG Huh-uh.
What's up?
Lost or something?

hardly recognize this place anymore.
What?
I'm just standing here.
You got a problem?
Back off, man.
DOWD I agreed to see you because we have a mutual enemy.
I thought the Illuminati were bankers, politicians.
Council on Foreign Relations types.
DOWD We always stayed in the background, even when that was true.
DOWD .
caught this damn plague myself.
Anyway, we never had troops like Majestic 12 -- or freighters full of bioweapons, if -- if what you say is accurate.
I just don't know where the freighter would dock.
DOWD They'll want to hide it.
The only facility big enough to the East Coast -- is the Advanced Submarine Facility at the Brooklyn Naval Shipyards.
That's why FEMA took it over.
DOWD They're probably storing the virus in the ship's diesel tanks.
The only way to make sure it's -- The only way to make sure it's destroyed will be to scuttle the ship.
DOWD It can be done -- if you know where to place the charges.
Smuggler should have explosives that will work.
DOWD I'd pick up some more while I have the chance, but if you think you're equipped, then find your pilot and get going.
DOWD I'm hanging in there.
DOWD I'll give you a blueprint of the ship.
The X's mark the five tri-hull welds.
Crack those up, reverse the bilge pumps, and the ship will split open like a banana.
I am certain it was a former member of the Illuminati.
The custom among our scientists was to sign their work -- like painters.
It was a group of conspirators within the Illuminati that formed Majestic 12 to begin with.
The conspirators were far more ruthless than we were.
We couldn't compete.
Majestic 12 realized that technology alone could be a source of political power.
However, the Illuminati laid the foundation.
the multinationals, the global structures Majestic 12 depends upon.
Majestic 12 inherited a system that took millennia to develop.
It's true that our organization stretches back to the Order of the Assassins, or Hashishim, but not in the way you might imagine.
The order hasn't so much lasted as been continually revived.
Adam Weishaupt started from scratch in Bavaria in 1776.
But so did Thomas Jefferson a few years later.
It's the IDEA that has lasted.
The SYSTEM.
Or the DESIRE, every thinking person's desire to give the world some decent organization.
Cecil Rhodes, for instance.
Absolutely no formal connection to the Illuminati at all, but one of the greatest visionaries of centralized power.
Now we have the Rhodes Scholarships, which feed recruits right into the Council on Foreign Relations.
A very powerful tool.
In my opinion, the history of the human race has been one long succession of conspiracies.
" We're running out of time.
You better track down the Smuggler.
JOCK MJ12 troops converging on your position, JC.
Get out of there!
DOWD They found us!
Where'd they go?
We're trapped!
What are we going to do?
That's it.
I think you got all of them.
Thank goodness.
Now get to the shipyard.
I'm going to wait until things die down.
GUNTHER HERMANN We are preparing our operation now.
You are finished.
INTERCOMM Yes.
Password?
He must be at home.
NEWSPAPER Terrorist Bombing Kills 35 APR - Hong Kong, China A terrorist attack on the VersaLife building in Hong Kong has at last count left 35 dead and over a 100 wounded.
As authorities continue to search the shattered structure through the early morning hours, the hope for locating any survivors among the remaining missing dwindles.
VersaLife, a division of Page Industries (NASDAQ:PAGI), has long been on the cutting edge of genetic, biological, and pharmaceutical research, virtually becoming synonymous with treatments for such virulent plagues as AIDS and the Century Flu.
Neither local police nor UNATCO would speculate on possible motives for such an attack, though both confirmed that it was the result of direct terrorist action.
When reached for comment, VersaLife released a short statement saying "We are shocked and saddened by this horrible tragedy, but must turn our attention towards comforting those who have lost a loved one to this senseless violence.
" UNATCO is currently seeking JC Denton, a known terrorist, for questioning.
JOCK I'm picking up incoming MJ12 troops.
They must have your location.
Better get what you need from Smuggler pronto and meet me on the roof of the hotel.
1230 Subject: Informatsiya I found the files you wanted, but I had to obtain them from the Biopreparat data well in Sverdlovsk at great expense.
Strange -- this information wasn't part of any official Biopreparat research effort that I've been able to find, but was conducted under the codename "Velichestvennii" over the last two decades.
There were several other projects attached to the same name being conducted throughout the world, but it was impossible to derive anything from them aside from their existence.
In any case, your buyer must have some fairly esoteric interests.
You'll find my fee debited from your account.  I. V.
- [[[ATTACHED Nanoscale Molecular Interactions with Polymerase.
doc]]] [[[ATTACHED Biochemical Immunity Rejection Studies Series 33a.
doc]]] [[[ATTACHED Genome Map 1/1A/3C Subject: JC Denton.
doc]]] [[[ATTACHED Sulfur Catalytic Reaction with Protease Site 3-4.
doc]]] [[[ATTACHED Regressive Degredation of Human Immune Complex.
com]]] [[[ATTACHED Velichestvennii 6287c78sdXX.
1230 Subject: Friend In Need You helped me and some friends out recently.
That transaction was business, but you still did me a good turn.
I don't forget that.
I heard through channels that there's some bad stuff coming down on you -- don't know why, people I talked to just said it had to do with a guy named "JC.
" I haven't heard of him, but someone wants him dead, cold in the ground.
Personal reasons.
And your name has come up.
Fair warning.
Watch your back.
SMUGGLER Why'd you come back?
UNATCO's got every cop in New York after you.
SMUGGLER So you finally wised up and joined the NSF?
SMUGGLER Good enough.
You know where to stand.
It's because people don't know they can pick a side that the government has so much power.
Have anything you want to sell?
SMUGGLER Sure.
Something you might like: an assault shotgun and some Sabot rounds.
I also have some LAMs; I'll give you the whole box of five for 3500.
SMUGGLER Expensive, but worth the price.
) (5.
SMUGGLER Smart man.
You won’t find a better weapon for tight quarters.
) (6.
1 SMUGGLER My pleasure.
2 SMUGGLER Tell you what, I’ll throw in another one for free if you promise to frag some ATF for me.
) 1-3.
SMUGGLER I don't like to haggle.
This ain't a thrift shop.
Get the money, and we'll talk.
4-6.
SMUGGLER You cleaned me out.
Come back later.
Maybe I can dig up something else for you.
Don’t let anyone see you when you slip out.
SMUGGLER What for?
A freighter at the Brooklyn Naval Shipyard.
SMUGGLER It's the government, isn't it?
Part of some experiment.
SMUGGLER What do you expect me to do about the freighter?
You have any extra LAMs or rockets?
SMUGGLER You think you can scuttle a superfreighter with a LAM?
SMUGGLER I'll help you out.
How about a rocket for a GEP gun?
Usually I save those for the NSF, but I'll sell it at a loss, say 2500.
You can also have a half-dozen LAMs for 2400.
Better buy now; I'm selling cheap only because a lot of people could die.
I could use a half-dozen LAMs.
1-2.
SMUGGLER You can always loot the ammo storage facility at the shipyard.
It's free if you don't get caught.
Hundreds of millions of lives are at stake.
SMUGGLER I like what you're doing, but I've got to cover my costs.
SMUGGLER Hey, I'm starting to get nervous about this.
What you're about to do is gonna turn some heads.
I don't want any trouble from the authorities.
No one followed me.
SMUGGLER You sure?
You might want to get out of Hell's Kitchen after I leave.
SMUGGLER What kind of operation?
For me.
I don't think you want to get caught in the middle.
SMUGGLER Thanks for the warning.
Come on, let's wrap this up.
SMUGGLER You telling me the truth about this superfreighter?
They're really gonna expose people to the plague?
Guess they've gone from fixing emergencies to making them.
SMUGGLER If you ask me, I bet FEMA wants to cause a national emergency and get control of the Army.
SMUGGLER That's all they would need: one national emergency.
Then they could get rid of the President, shut down Congress and suspend the Constitution.
Scuttling a freighter's a big job.
BOOK BASIC FIREARM SAFETY RULES 1.
Never point a firearm at anyone or anything you do not intend to shoot.
Before handling any firearm, understand its operation.
Always have your firearm pointed in a safe direction.
Keep your firearm unloaded when not in use.
Treat every firearm as if it were loaded.
Never pass your firearm to another person until the cylinder or action is open and you visually check that it is unloaded.
Place your finger inside the trigger guard only when you are ready to fire.
The sick and homeless shamble about as if they just left a casting call for "Night of the Living Dead," and the cops obviously came from next door where they're filming a classic 1990's Michael Bay action flick.
Really, the whole thing is too much.
And what does Kwesi recommend when it gets to be too much?
Why party, of course!
It's not with historical precedent, children.
Those of you without zyme-addled attention spans may remember Boccacio's classic _Decameron_ (and that's Boccacio the 14th century writer, and not Boccacio the jungle-thud DJ tripmaster), where a bunch of young, hottie Florentines decided to flee another one of these boring little plagues and hole up with a few too many bottles of wine, tell outrageous stories, and have a go at each other once in a while.
So, speaking only for Kwesi, I'm going to invite over about 80 of my nearest and dearest -- soon to be nearer and dearer -- with all the food and recreational drugs they can carry, then lock the doors.
Good night, children!
BULLETINS DECLARATION OF MARTIAL LAW Effective immediately, all citizens of New York City are hereby informed that, at the request of Governor Walpole, President Mead has declared MARTIAL LAW to be in effect for Manhattan and surrounding boroughs.
Until further notice, the affected areas are under the authority of the Federal Emergency Management Administration who will work with UNATCO and local law enforcement to eliminate the terrorist threat that has paralyzed the city in the past week.
"This is an extreme measure -- one undertaken with the utmost gravity -- but it is necessary step to insure the safety of the citizens of New York," said Walton Simons, Director of FEMA.
"I can only stress that it is a temporary situation that will be resolved as quickly as possible.
" Citizens are advised that a curfew has been instituted from 9PM to 7AM.
Further details will follow.
MOST WANTED: J. C. Denton Citizens of New York are warned to be on the lookout for terrorist J. C. Denton, also known as "J. C. Denton. " Denton, a terrorist leader, is wanted in conjunction with a number of crimes including the recent attack on UNATCO Headquarters; the bombing of the VersaLife building in Hong Kong; and the murders of Juan Ivanovich Lebedev, UNATCO Agent Anna Navarre, and UNATCO Director Joseph Manderley.
Denton is approximately six feet tall, with silver facial tattoos and solid blue eyes, the result of a genetic condition usually concealed by a pair of sunglasses.
He is armed and extremely dangerous.
If you believe you have seen or know someone answering to this description, DO NOT attempt to engage them, but immediately report them to your nearest FEMA, UNATCO, or police presence.
New Cremation Center As per FEMA Public Health Directive 27 (PHD27), all bodies are to be cremated IMMEDIATELY upon expiration.
4095 if they require assistance.
Failure to comply with any FEMA Directive is punishable by a minimum sentence of 3 years in jail and/or a fine of up to c10,000.
Government Shutdowns Until further notice, all city, state, and county offices are closed, and the following services suspended: * Public schools * Municipal buses * Garbage service * Road maintenance In addition, all air travel to and from John F.
Kennedy International Airport and La Guardia has been canceled.
Transit Disruptions As the result of terrorist action, several subway stations are now closed to traffic: * 18th Street * Battery Park * York Street * Clark Street * High Street * Queensbridge and Queensboro * Pelham Green line from Elder to Middleton Alternate routes will be posted at or near the affected stations, or can be found on Transit//NYNET.
Note that district passes will be strictly monitored to prevent unauthorized travel and curfew will be observed at all stations throughout the greater metropolitan area.
BUM Owners left town, far as I know.
Heat's off - but I don't mind.
I don't mind.
Lotta rats, but I guess that's okay.
Cops don't care where you are, long as you're inside.
Heard this place was condemned.
I don't like people who ask a lot of questions.
FILBEN No shit.
Man, you really did change sides.
Never would've thought it possible.
Thanks for getting rid of that guy.
They're dropping like flies.
NYC - HELL'S KITCHEN DAEDALUS When the shipment has been destroyed, I will require you to go to Paris.
You must find Dowd's associate Morgan Everett.
JOCK Let's go.
I'll be back in a minute.
(JOCK We can't do much about that freighter unless you pick up some explosives from Smuggler.
His hideout is northeast of the hotel.
Not a nice guy, but he'll take your money.
Let's go.
I'll be right back.
) NYC - BROOKLYN NAVAL SHIPYARDS JOCK I've dropped you in an abandoned lot next to the base.
There should be an old grate on the wall that you can gain entry through.
I've got to get out of here before the sentries get suspicious.
Good.
Up ahead are the barracks.
You need to gain entry to the base and eventually reach the large building to the north.
Keep your eyes open for the ammo storage facility.
You need to load up on explosives.
SOLDIER You must be Denton.
SOLDIER Our buddy Vinny said to expect you.
You think you can find out what's going on in there, go for it.
SOLDIER FEMA and the Chinese.
I don't like the smell of it one bit.
SOLDIER This key will open the main gate.
The guard just inside the main building entrance will let you pass, but don't expect any hospitality from the FEMA people.
I don't know how you'll get on-board, with the main ramp retracted, unless you want to swim.
Be careful in there.
The standing orders inside the perimeter are "shoot on sight.
" We're supposed to be on red-alert.
They even told us to watch the crane so that no one tries to jump the deck.
Good luck.
FEMA made a big mistake if they think we follow orders blindly.
Just because you have a uniform on, it doesn't mean you don't know how to think for yourself.
When we find out what the government's doing, we're going to tell our friend Joe Greene at the Midnight Sun.
As far as we're concerned, you were never here.
I hear they're planning something big for tomorrow morning -- an airlift of some kind.
You know that girl Sandra?
Man, Vinny has all the luck.
SOLDIER You with Page's group?
SOLDIER They just turned in.
SOLDIER The FEMA people don't want a lot of traffic through here.
They've got something sensitive going on with the Chinese.
SOLDIER If I was you, I wouldn't even LOOK at that ship unless I was damn sure I was needed.
Why don't you turn in.
Let me pass.
SOLDIER The gate stays closed.
Actually, our orders are to shoot anyone who tries to get in.
We won't go that far, but don't expect a warm reception inside the perimeter.
The FEMA people left strict orders: no visitors.
If you snoop around, you're just going to get yourself shot.
I'll be glad when this all blows over.
I'm not sticking my neck out for one of Page's page-boys, assuming you're who you say you are.
You should have been on time for your meeting.
We don't like what you people are doing in there.
We don't like how FEMA thinks they can negotiate with a foreign power.
They can't.
Hey, I just follow orders.
Your secret operation couldn't happen at all if it wasn't for people like me doing what they're told.
Come back tomorrow.
I don't have time to talk right now.
NEWSPAPER Search for Terrorist Leader Intensifies APR - New York UNATCO is working closely with FEMA and other international security agencies around the world to apprehend JC Denton, a terrorist with ties to a number of groups including the NSF, Silhouette, and organized crime in Hong Kong.
"We believe him to be responsible for organizing and leading the attack on Liberty Island and the deaths of a number of UNATCO agents," said Walton Simons, Director of FEMA.
"The necessity of instituting martial law in New York -- unheard of in the history of America -- is directly attributable to criminal elements operating under his orders.
" Simons went to say that evidence recovered from the recent bombing of the VersaLife building in Hong Kong demonstrates JC Denton's involvement "beyond a shadow of a doubt" and points towards an organized, systematic campaign of terror designed to "extort freedom for politically dangerous ideologies through any means necessary.
" Authorities are also seeking any information on the whereabouts of Alex Jacobson or Brian "Jock" Flanagan, key figures in the terrorist organization.
SOLDIER You came in on the chopper?
You must be with the D. C.people.
My sister lives down there.
She works in the Space Museum.
Never seen so many folks from the Beltway.
It's like a convention.
Us troops, we're pretty anxious to find out what's going on.
I guess we'll hear about it in the news, and then we can say we were there.
Bob Page was here yesterday.
I bet what's going on is financial.
I think the United States is asking for another loan.
That's my theory.
We could sure use another check from the Chinese.
It was nice chatting.
Like the directive said, we've got this place sealed tight.
You can count on us.
Get to the door at the base of the huge crane in the distance, but watch out for the guards and security bots.
DAEDALUS I have begun planning your future objectives.
Dowd will be sending you to Paris.
Make sure he gives you the current residence of his associate, Morgan Everett.
I do not have access to that information.
DATACUBE Okay, I've added a new account for our friendly neighbourhood FEMA rep -- it's only temporary, but it should allow him to check his e-mail and all that.
Let him know we're behind a firewall, so if he wants to access any privnet stuff that'll take some working out with IS.
Any problems with a bot should be reported directly to the operations office.
Unauthorized personnel should _not_ attempt to affect repairs on a bot under any circumstances.
Only authorized security and FEMA personnel, or those other individuals with valid FEMA clearance, will be allowed access.
This is considered a high alert situation, and lethal force will be used to control the perimeter.
Any questions should be directed to Captain James Keene, JKeene/MilNet.
Please change this code immediately to 2249.
We will pursue a more thorough solution at a later date.
Walton Simons Director, FEMA NEWSPAPER Page Unveils "Aquinas" APR - Washington, D. C.
At a lavish press conference today attended by mainstream and technical media alike, Bob Page unveiled Page Industries (NASDAQ: PAGI) newest technological achievement, "Aquinas.
" Rumored to have been in development for almost five years at a cost of over billion credits, Aquinas is a seamless, transparent replacement for the current patchwork of Net protocols that promises to radically expand bandwidth without the need for new hardware.
"Aquinas is the result of over five hundred man-years of effort on the part of some of the most talented and driven people in the industry," Page said at the conference.
"We're grateful to the NSA and the Hague Commission on Secure Communications for trusting Page Industries with the responsibilities for this technological milestone.
As of noon today you can expect nearly all of the world's net traffic to be carried by Aquinas.
Bandwidth is now, for all intents and purposes, free.
" The remainder of the press conference involved presentations by the leaders of the carriers allied with Page Industries, and a technical discussion of the Aquinas Protocol -- named after the titular Thomas Aquinas, whose philosophy is a well-known passion for Bob Page.
98231 Subject: Preparations I have downloaded the latest keyhole surveillance and given the projected weather and tides for the next 12 hours, the PRCS Wall Cloud should dock ahead of schedule at 18:40.
All clearances to the sub pen have been revoked and, with the exception of a small maintenance crew, all base personnel have been evacuated from the facility.
I will coordinate perimeter and security with Captain Keene.
We should be able to begin loading of the helicopters within two hours of the Wall Cloud's arrival.
I will contact you again once the preparation has commenced.
98231 Subject: RE: Security Request Yes, sir.
My apologies, and I will certainly see to it that your orders are carried out with all speed and precision.
Please let me know if you require anything else.
>FEMA requires you to comply during this crisis >situation, and you are legally obligated to do >so: we are attempting to control an insect >population that may be a carrier for the Gray >Death.
If you do not devote your fullest >enthusiasm to this operation then you can and >will be summarily court martialed.
If you have >any questions about my authority, refer them to >Rear Admiral Radchek.
> >>I have to question whether this is the best >>possible use of the Advanced Submarine >>Facility, and whether placing Navy personnel >>under FEMA command is advisable.
>> >>>Once the Wall Cloud has docked, the >>>submarine facility will be cordoned off and >>>only FEMA or authorized security personnel >>>given access; you will work with Agent >>>Jenkins to coordinate this.
Helicopters will >>>arrive shortly thereafter to be fitted with >>>sprayer attachments and loaded with >>>pesticide from the tanker.
98231 Subject: He has left I have looking for that trater J. C.
Denton or "JC" or whatever he calls himself, but he is not in Hong Kong.
I am to be returning to New York, but I will find him.
Thank you for this mison -- It is what I want.
I will succede for you and for Agent Navarre.
98231 Subject: VersaLife The VersaLife situation has been corrected.
All evidence of MJ12 involvement was removed prior to the building being demolished, effectively removing all secondary and tertiary evidence along with key compromised personnel.
We have leaked items to the press implicating Denton and his associates and have received favorable feedback from our sources.
Production of the Non-Eutactic Blade (NEB) has been only temporarily delayed and will be shifted to other technology centers with minimal impact to the overall schedule.
WORKER 1 Haven't seen you in a week.
Where you been?
WORKER 2 Ahhh.
worker's comp.
Messed up my hand while I was working on the sewer shut- off grate -- damn thing came down and nearly took off my whole arm.
WORKER 1 You gonna be all right?
WORKER 2 Yeah, 's okay.
They told me they were gonna fix it.
'Course they waited till after I got hurt to do it.
WORKER 1 Ayuh, saw a bunch of folks working on that shed out back a few days ago, figure they must be tinkering with the control valve, sure enough.
WORKER 2 What's up with this place, anyway?
On the way in some goon with a gun frisked me from head to toe, told me to watch my step.
WORKER 1 FEMA, sure.
After they declared martial law, they came down on this place like they owned it.
Shut off the sub pen, threatened to shoot anyone got close.
WORKER 2 Yeah, I saw 'em goose-stepping around back there.
Christ.
This place is going to hell in a hand-basket, real fast.
Wonder what the union's got to say.
WORKER 1 Right now the union hain't got nothin' to say.
WORKER 2 Hey, I know my job.
You want something else out of me, talk to the union.
Place has turned into a military camp.
You're gone one week, this is what happens.
Look, you do what you have to do, I'll do what I have to do.
I'm just saying I don't trust a bunch of guys with riot gear and guns.
I ain't done nothing wrong, so just leave me alone, okay?
If you're gonna bust my ass, I'm gonna quit right now.
WORKER 1 You supposed to be taking over 'round here?
Don't mind me saying so, you can't be worse than the other guy.
Simons, that's his name.
Ayuh, I don't want to be getting anyone into trouble, but there's something about the man that just hain't trustworthy.
Like what?
Don't know, exactly.
Got this way of talking, like he'd just as soon wring your neck if he didn't need you for the job.
Strange tattoos -- kinda swim around under his skin.
Hain't seen nothin' like it.
Got work to do, sure enough.
Check in with the front office, you need to know anything else.
Look, I'm done jawing and I got five hours left on my shift.
Login is "USFEMA" and password is "Security".
When the task is completed, report to Simons.
Security should consider themselves on high alert.
All entrances have been sealed and the codes will change daily: today's code is 0909.
You will receive future codes from your direct supervisor.
This code is not to be divulged to any individual who is not authorized security or FEMA.
Captain James Keene Brooklyn Naval Shipyards WORKER 3 You a supervisor?
Whole place been turned upside down ever since they opened that sub pen.
Yeah, I was there.
Mister Multi-Trillionaire Bob Page was all smiling and cutting the ribbon, talking about how it was this big deal for New York.
Next thing I know, Page is gone and a bunch of these FEMA troops are running the place.
Say it's "military security.
" I don't know about military security.
Last thing I saw dock there wasn't a sub, it was some big damned freighter.
Chinese, maybe.
You know anything about the bonus situation?
I mean, we're working some long hours here.
Um, if this is about last week, that was just a one-time thing, okay?
Won't happen again.
Damn, you people got anything better to do but look over our shoulders?
I keep my mouth shut.
I don't see anything.
That what you want to hear?
JOCK You won't believe this, JC.
There was a raid on Smuggler's.
I just saw Gunther get into a copter on the roof and head back to UNATCO.
I don't think Smuggler got out in time.
Just thought you might want to know.
You might be able to get on the roof and enter the building through the air conditioning ducts.
Good.
One of these units will have a panel you can open.
Crawl through ductwork into the building.
If you want to slip in this way, you should look for a maintenance hatch or follow the air vents out of this room, but be prepared for dangerous machinery and maintenance bots.
Now watch for guards and find a way to get below decks.
SOLDIER You must be Denton.
Come here, I've got something to tell you.
They gave the ramp key to the foreman.
I think his locker's just up the hall.
Be careful in there.
The FEMA people are on Red Alert.
Don't ask me why.
If you or your men need access to the Wall Cloud, the ramp can be lowered with the code 6655.
It should go without saying that this code must not be shared or else disciplinary action could result.
Please coordinate your men with the ranking FEMA security officer present.
Due to the sensitive nature of the Wall Cloud's cargo, the ship will be in lock-down while docked and only the minimum necessary personnel given clearance at any time.
Please contact the dock foreman with an access code for his people -- I trust you will oversee the operation and insure that he understands the necessity for these precautions.
Aston Greer Director of Security, FEMA MECHANIC You can sure tell the janitors haven't worked in a couple of days.
I don't see why they don't just send all of us home.
Don't mind the free paycheck, though.
I should've brought a book.
Be prepared for resistance.
There's the objective: the PRCS Wall Cloud.
You should have no trouble slipping past the guards on the dock; they seem to be walking standard patrol routes.
MECHANIC 1 How's it goin'?
Yeah, not much for us to do with management gone.
I think we'll be next to get sent home.
Whatever those guys from D.C.
are doing on the ship, they don't want an audience.
I think they're making a secret treaty with the Chinese.
I called the newspaper myself, but no one called me back.
MECHANIC 2 Hey, you're the guy Vinny was talking about, Sandra's friend.

MECHANIC 2 We're one hundred percent behind you.
We want to know what's happening on the ship.
MECHANIC 2 The code to the ramp is 6655.
It's that easy, but watch out for the guys on night patrol.
Thanks.
MECHANIC 1 That's cool you know Vinny.
I hope you find out what's going on.
I think the special interests have control of FEMA.
Something just isn't right.
What's the emergency?
Why's FEMA here?
MECHANIC 2 Good luck.
A lot of foreign nationals up there, not sure why.
I'd like to know why Walton Simons was here yesterday.
Say hi to Sandra for me.
Vinny's a lucky son-of-a-bitch.
NEWSPAPER Family Discovers New Species New World Press - New York The Caruthers family was enjoying a pleasant walk down a stretch of unremarkable SoCal beach when they encountered what may be a most remarkable scientific discovery.
"It was my wife who spotted it first," said Dane Caruthers.
"At first we thought it was a lizard that'd drowned and washed ashore, but it was too big -- it had this gigantic head and feathers on its arms, but it didn't look like any bird I'd ever seen.
Then I thought it might be like one of those prehistoric fish that everyone thought was extinct, so I decided to call someone.
" The strange carcass eventually found its way to the Biology Department of the University of California, Los Angeles, where it was examined by Dr.
Trey Hermann.
"A preliminary study indicates that it doesn't really fit any of our current taxonomies," Dr.
Hermann said.
"It seems to have certain superficial characteristics of a seagull, but with a considerable number of other, more reptilian traits.
" The Caruthers family seemed to take it all in stride.
"Though I have to admit I was a little excited when Dr.
Hermann said they might name it after us," said Mr.
Caruthers.
You can reach the ship this way if you don't mind swimming.
DAEDALUS There is another way to find Everett.
He has a mistress named Beth DuClare.
Remember that name when you get to Paris.
DATACUBE BLUEOS INSTALLATION LOG 19:55:33 Compiling kernel v23.
4a.
Created kernel.
Installing kernel!
Installing kernel files to \system\bluekernel.

copying vbluemod.
kernel!

copying vconnect.
kernel!

copying ispp33.
yht!

copying ispp56.
yht!

copying bluedrivers.
interface!

copying bluesecurity.
kernel!
Initializing bluesecurity "root" login.
Default password: "reindeerflotilla".

copying xholoarray.
interface!

copying xhardwire.
interface!

copying xsolo.
interface!

copying qazmod.
kernel!
Morphing kernel driver interface!
/temp/morph Installing morphed interface to \system\bluekernel\interface.

copying bluetranslut.
6ty!

copying tripodmod.
ker *** SYSTEM FAILURE 00x627d8893 *** INFORMED GUARD Executive Order 10990.
It lets us take over all modes of transportation.
NEW GUARD FEMA can do that?
INFORMED GUARD If the President declares an emergency.
Executive Order 10995.
We can take over the media.
NEW GUARD All of it?
INFORMED GUARD Any at all.
Executive Order 10997.
We can take command of natural resources.
NEW GUARD So it's all legal.
INFORMED GUARD The National Security Act also falls under our umbrella.
And the Defense Production Act.
If he plays his cards right, Walton Simons can pull off a bloodless coup.
NEW GUARD All the better.
Then we don't have to fight.
INFORMED GUARD Exactly.
DATACUBE Doctor Liu, I'm afraid we've completely gone through all of our motion sickness medication - - if you could restock the lockers downstairs, that'd be great.
I have a feeling this is going to be a rough outing.
BTW, Song's been running around changing all the codes lately, so if you want to raise the bridge in engineering use 9753; Ewan DATACUBE Note to self: remember to tell Song that the new code she set for ops doesn't work -- the "4" button on the keypad is stuck and I don't have a replacement in stock -- so I changed it to 83353.
DATACUBE Song, You said you were going to rotate the security codes personally this time around, but you should check with the Captain -- I just changed his yesterday to 65678.
Not sure if he wants to keep it or what.
Ewan Captain Zhao.
The helicopters will be there shortly.
They are to be loaded for spraying of the virus.
No delays.
I want the helicopters operating before sunrise.
DATACUBE Remember login/password: KZhao, Captain DATACUBE Song: Before we arrive in port I want you to perform the normal code rotation, but revoke all access to the ship's armory and change the code to 71324.
Tell no one; you and I will be the only ones with access.
Simons is no better than a snake, and I question whether the crew would understand what I must do.
You alone I can trust.
The modifications to the cargo bays have been completed as specified and the helicopters should begin loading within the hour.
I trust your people will be careful with the cargo -- the crew of this ship is still my responsibility.
Be careful of my Ling; she is my responsibility as well.
2379 Subject: daddy hi daddy I just wanted to see how you are doing.
I am practicing my English can you tell?
My teacher says I am almost the best in my class.
when will you be back?
Mommy told me she loves you and I love you too.
They said they were your friends and if there was ever a problem they would come and get me so that i could see you.
i told Mommy and she didn't seem to like that but I thought they were very nice.
Mommy says you will be back soon and I can't wait to go to the museum again.
I love you Daddy.
2379 Subject: A Matter for Discussion The Te-Wu have been most intrigued by your information regarding Walton Simons and the implied threats towards you and your family.
The well-being of any one family is certainly the primary concern of the Chinese people and their chosen instruments.
However, we are also troubled by your reluctance to appear for counseling and the apparent use of a registered Chinese freighter in a way that does not contribute to the communal good.
We would hope that you have not made regrettable decisions in the absence of appropriate advice.
Please contact us immediately so that we may discuss your involvement and the correct course of action for both yourself and your family.
Comrade Advisor Fengyi Gong NYC - SHIP LOWER DECKS GUARD 1 RX 84.
GUARD 2 What’s that?
GUARD 1 One of the plans.
You haven’t heard of RX 84?
GUARD 2 Huh-uh.
GUARD 1 FEMA takes over the highways, police, airports, media, the Armed Forces.
GUARD 2 But they still report to the President, right?
GUARD 1 Not until the end of the emergency.
That’s for efficiency.
Also, they have plans on the books to arrest five million Americans the day the emergency is declared.
GUARD 2 Terrorists?
GUARD 1 Immigrants mostly, but also anyone the FBI’s been watching.
GUARD 2 Think it will happen?
GUARD 1 If Simons gets the command, he’ll use RX 84.
Hard to tell what’s going on, though.
This is one of the Tri-hull weld points on the wall.
You should be able to breech the inner hull with a GEP round or a LAM.
When this one is opened there are four more you need to breech.
Check Dowd's map for their locations.
These are the bilge pumps.
You need to turn them on then reverse the flow.
There should be a switch nearby to turn on the pumps and the computer should allow you to reverse the flow.
The bilge valves are open.
Now just breach the last of the weld points.
DAEDALUS Do not forget about Everett.
I have located his mistress, Beth DuClare, but she is dead.
The last living associate of the Illuminati leadership is the daughter, Nicolette DuClare.
Ask Dowd about Nicolette.
We need someone to take us to Everett.
ELECTRICIAN You'll have to go around; we're rewiring this part of the ship.
ELECTRICIAN The transformers are shorting out and I can't shut them down.
A lot of charge in there.
The overhead walkway is like the plate of a capacitator.
ELECTRICIAN You said it; they don't pay me enough to go in there myself.
I'm waiting on a couple more spiders; the first two have quit responding.
ELECTRICIAN I wouldn't advise it.
You'd have to shut down two power control panels, one of them under the floor.
The guys in the operations room of the helicopter bay have been on my case -- their computers are fried -- but it's not worth the risk.
No way.
Arcs of electricity come off that thing like lightning.
I can't be responsible if you get hurt.
We have to shut down both control panels to kill the power.
The bots'll be here any minute.
Don't worry; I'll have it fixed by morning.
BOOK Jacob's Shadow by Andrew Hammond Chapter 23 There weren't many moves left.
Jacob knew that.
Most of the pawns had been taken off the board and his own queen lost.
The game had entered its final phase, and now the question wasn't which piece to sacrifice -- they were all more or less expendable -- but when.
He shined his flashlight throughout the rooms of the vacant house.
It was a perfectly serviceable tract home somewhere in the suburbs where the sun occasionally shone.
It looked like no one had lived there for ages, and that was true enough.
Jacob just took care of the bills -- any paper trail ended at Hobb's Cemetery up state.
In the attic he found the old water heater, cold now.
He removed the top and felt along the edge for a nearly invisible strand of fishing line.
Jacob hauled back on the line until he pulled a dripping plastic bag free of the murky tank.
He took the flashlight between his teeth and opened the bag.
Inside was a gun, a clean gun.
Its serial numbers filed and the rifling scratched beyond any possible match.
The bullets all reloads with blank copper casings.
No fingerprints.
Time for the next move.
DATACUBE Tran, Captain's changed all the damn codes again -- says we're going to do it every day we're in port.
He's been awful nervous lately, and that makes me nervous, particularly when we're carrying a freighter full or whatever it is.
At least we're getting a bonus for this trip.
Anyways, today's code for the hangar is 4453.
The bilge valves are open.
Get out of there; the ship will tear itself apart in 30 minutes.
Jock will meet you at the dockyard.
ELECTRICIAN She's breaking up!
We're all gonna die!
Get out of there now.
At the west end of the dock is a maintenance door to the air conditioning system.
A ladder will take you into the ventilation channels.
Jock is waiting on the roof.
That does it.
The ship is sinking.
Jock is touching down on the roof and will take you to Stanton Dowd.
Dowd has determined who engineered the virus.
NYC - LOWER EAST SIDE CEMETERY JOCK I've dropped you at the main gate.
No sign of danger.
Talk to Dowd and then I'll pick you up.
GATE KEEPER Yes.
What is it?
GATE KEEPER Just a minute.
I'll be right out to let you in.
Mr.
Dowd awaits you in the family mausoleum.
The building that says "Dowd" on the front, on the western side of the cemetery.
He is expecting you.
DOWD How'd you get in?
How else?
DOWD Strange.
No one's supposed to be working this late.
Did he say anything?
Better safe than sorry.
DOWD Starting to think like us, huh?
Be careful.
Paranoia's a drug; you can get addicted.
I scuttled the freighter and destroyed the stockpile of virus.
Think I should check it out?
DOWD Oh, don't mind my paranoia.
Occupational hazard.
I'm sure he has his business.
Anyway, I scuttled the freighter and destroyed the stockpile of plague virus.
DOWD Excellent, my friend.
We have them on the run.
Hope it works.
DOWD Ambrosia.
You found some.
I'm sorry, but.
I didn't manage to retrieve any Ambrosia.
DOWD No bother.
Dowd, tell me something.
Someone calling himself Daedalus has been broadcasting to my infolink.
He wants me to go to Paris to find an associate of yours, Morgan Everett.
DOWD Yes, yes.
Everett.
We need his help to develop a cure.
Who is this Daedalus?
He seems to be an ally.
But if your friend doesn't want to be found -- DOWD At this stage, we might be out of options.
DOWD Not exactly.
The work was on augmentations.
It was Bob Page who wanted to develop it into a weapon.
the billionaire.
How does he relate to Majestic 12?
DOWD He was among the original group of Illuminati who broke off to form Majestic 12.
Not so good at the science, though.
he must be directing operations.
and help find a cure.
DOWD Exactly.
DOWD Yes, Everett is close to the DuClares.
My suggestion, too.
Unfortunately, I've lost touch with the Paris crowd.
DOWD She's a member of the French terrorist group Silhouette, last I heard.
They're rumored to meet in the Paris catacombs.
I'll have Jock drop me off near the catacombs.
DOWD I'll give you what I have on Nicolette.
It's not much -- just a few snapshots of the catacombs area.
I'm sure they will be helpful.
DOWD Bob Page was Morgan Everett's protege, a good student but very impatient.
When one of Page's plates was contaminated, he would smash everything in his cubicle with a ball-peen hammer.
Should have guessed he would go bad.
Page resisted the "degrees of Illuminism," as they were implemented.
Never made it past "Master of Tyre.
" He would sleep through the Hatha Yoga exercises in the morning, so it became impossible for him to advance.
With Majestic 12, from what I can tell, he's replaced the degrees with a hierarchy of security clearances -- same structure, only secular.
He names the various clearances after angels, though.
I find that ironic.
A bright man.
Understands the origins of loyalty.
Advancement through the layers of secrecy provides incentives for recruits to perform well.
Don't underestimate the allure of a well-kept secret.
Our organization lasted from the Crusades to the early 21st century, and our only secret was a technique of meditation, a way of imaging your body dissolving into light.
If you want to know about Page, ask Everett when you get to Paris.
They were like father and son, once.
You better get moving.
048 Subject: Humble Request Mr.
Dowd, I have long enjoyed our acquaintance and the many rewarding conversations we have had since first meeting.
I must apologize, then, if what I now ask strays beyond the boundaries of that relationship, but I feel we are in a position to benefit not just each other, but to avert a terrible tragedy from befalling all the peoples of the world.
I am sending an associate of mine to New York; I hope you will take the opportunity to meet with him.
Through his efforts we have uncovered some clues to the nature of the "Gray Death" virus: it is artificially created, and appears to be connected to the Illuminati in some fashion -- or someone wishes us to believe that it is.
Those responsible for the virus are delivering a shipment to New York aboard a superfreighter previously owned by you, currently registered as the "PRCS Wall Cloud.
" No doubt the virus will be used to infect thousands more in an effort to create fear and confusion.
Any assistance you could give my associate and I in preventing the virus from being released will save untold lives.
My most humble thanks, and I hope this will find you in good health.
JOCK Whoa!
Big problem.
Someone set up an EM disruption field -- my controls are all over the place.
The source seems to be a small building just inside the cemetery gate.
Take out the field generator or it's power source or I won't be able to land.
JC, I'm coming in fast.
LZ is hot so get to me as soon as you can.
I'm going to be a sitting duck out here.
Close one.
Dowd needs us to contact his associate in Paris.
JOCK Everett, right.

The leader of the Illuminati.
Bet he's not an easy man to find.
JOCK Make it fast.
JOCK Ah, if only Paris wasn't under martial law.
What a great city it used to be.
PARIS - DENFERT-ROCHEREAU JOCK Well, enjoy Paris.
Sorry I couldn't get you any closer than this.
Majestic 12 troops have occupied the streets.
Make your way down to the catacombs.
Silhouette should have a hideout in one of the old tombs.
Excuse me.
It's been left to the bums.
BOOK ACCORD DE CONTRAT This agreement is made between the party of the First Part (the "Investor") and the party of the Second Part (the "Contractor") to engage in a mutually beneficial business arrangement through the renovation of the property (the "Property") of a kind and type to be specified below.
-- This contract is useless, Renee -- now that the investors have backed out, I've had to lay off all 18 men -- until we can get backing, we'll just have to wait.
Maintenance lift code: 4003 Club La Porte de l'Enfer -- 21:30 greasy green greasels greasy green greasels AIMEE I didn't know.
How could I know?
AIMEE I tried to stop them!
I tried!
AIMEE Marbre, Monte, Mimi.
It was the contamination!
And those four greasels down there.
0001!
Stupid, stupid, stupid password.
That door should be LOCKED.
where?
AIMEE The sewers.
In the basement.
I lost everybody, except for Michel.
AIMEE Somebody should kill those ugly, those stinking, vicious.
Oh!
No, it's too dangerous.
We've got to keep that door closed!
Horrible!
Horrible!

forgive me.
What?
What was I doing?

green greasy greasels.
oh!
Michel is next.
I know it!
Everybody dead.
DEAD!
DEAD!
And the crackdown, no food for anybody.
BOOK The Man Who Was Thursday by G. K.
Chesterton .
"Professor," he cried, "it is intolerable.
Are you afraid of this man?
" The Professor lifted his heavy lids, and gazed at Syme with large, wide-open, blue eyes of an almost ethereal honesty.
"Yes, I am," he said mildly.
"So are you.
" Syme was dumb for an instant.
Then he rose to his feet erect, like an insulted man, and thrust the chair away from him.
"Yes," he said in a voice indescribable, "you are right.
I am afraid of him.
Therefore I swear by God that I will seek out this man whom I fear until I find him, and strike him on the mouth.
If heaven were his throne and the earth his footstool, I swear that I would pull him down.
" "How?
" asked the staring Professor.
"Why?
" "Because I am afraid of him," said Syme; "and no man should leave in the universe anything of which he is afraid.
A greasel.
Either MJ12 has been releasing transgenics into the sewers, or they had an escape at one of their laboratories.
ICARUS I now have full access to your systems.
AIMEE Oh?
AIMEE Hourra!
My kitties!
Now they can go out and play and not get eaten!
And can you believe -- the guys with the rocket tubes were afraid.
AIMEE Oh, yes.
The soldiers that use Building #14-- you know, across from the catacombs, the old entrance.
Afraid of greasels!
AIMEE .
green greasy greasels.
ha-ha!
Did you hear that?
It's going to be okay, little Michel.

pretty kitty.
pretty kitty.
We're free!
We're free!
Nobody else cared about my little kitties.
You're beautiful.
a beautiful person!
Oh!
I'm so happy!
DATACUBE Francois, the hacking attempt has been an unqualified success -- I've transferred all the funds that I managed to siphon from Metropolitan before the ice came down into a dummy account: number 2221969, password "dullbill".
Let the other members of the cell know that these funds can be used for any projects that the Mayhem Comite may deem appropriate.
-- Tandis Qu'ils Dorment, Nous Gagnerons TELEPHONE I am right behind you, Mr.
Denton.
TELEPHONE Soon I will be ahead of you, beside you -- I will be a part of everything in your world.
Is that God you're talking about -- or just a bunch of New Age crap?
TELEPHONE Yes.
a New Age.
You are not a recognized user for this device.
This account has been locked.
Pending investigation.
This line has been shut down by order of UNATCO.
Awaiting authorization.
DATACUBE DAILY ACTIVITY REPORT .
with the new government regulations it has become almost impossible to get any work done after sundown.
the sound-mute bots will supposedly only attack known terrorists, but I do not trust them, and neither does anyone else.
They all head home before dark.
I stay and try to get a little work done so the American MIS woman gave me a passcode for the security system (rzelazny/shadowjack), but it is difficult to make any progress when no one is around to give me the information I need.
They have blockaded this metro station.
DEFOE Monsieur.
over here.
DEFOE I have.
something of interest.
Rockets.
Eh?
Four for 5250.
Three LAMs for 6750.
A recoil suppressor weapon modification, 1200.
Good deal, eh?
DEFOE The best I can do with the troops everywhere.
They took over the mall where I meet my suppliers.
I took care of them.
Maybe I can help you out.
DEFOE Who is?
We all are suffering.
I tell you this: if you remove the three soldiers from the metro station next to the mall -- never mind the dumb security bot they use -- I will owe you a favor.
Until then, the prices remain.
I'll think about doing that "favor.
" Heard of a resistance group called Silhouette?
DEFOE My primary market.
I've been told they have a hideout in the catacombs.
DEFOE Not a good time for Silhouette.
The government is cracking down.
DEFOE I saw commandos and troops going in the catacombs entrance across the street.
They plan to occupy the entire network.
DEFOE Quite ingeniously, but a soldier will stumble into the secret door eventually.
Anyway, can we make a deal?
Sounds good.
DEFOE Not one of these is a dud.
Defoe will not cheat you.
DEFOE Newest model of recoil suppressor, direct from the United Nations Anti-terrorist Coalition.
I believe the UNATCO people will use the term "harmonic stabilizer.
" DEFOE Yes, they are good at making nice-sounding words.
1 DEFOE How unfortunate.
2 DEFOE You can trust Defoe.
All merchanidise -- it is acquired through military channels.
3 DEFOE I get the picture, as you say.
(Can we make a deal?
DEFOE My customers are in a Roman tomb underground, waiting to be killed.
Yes!
It has hurt business!
I want to help Silhouette.
Tell me how to find the secret bunker.
DEFOE You want to fight the entire French army?
They belong to an international group called Majestic 12.
DEFOE I have heard these rumors.
Maybe it is true, and maybe you want to help Silhouette, but they trust me to keep their secret.
What do you want to buy?
I'll think about doing that "favor.
DEFOE Yeah?
Now what about giving me a deal on some hardware.
DEFOE Dead, eh?
That could mean a lot of money for me -- and a discount for you.
I will give you prices that are one-third of what I said before.
No better deal anywhere.
DEFOE You know how to use, yes?
The activation switch will light up the red lights.
Throw as far as you can, then get down!
DEFOE I will bring you more -- next week.
My friend in Switzerland, he buys in quantity.
I wish I had other hardware to sell.
DATACUBE Chad -- I've been down in the tunnels trying to work out where all the government people Voychek was talking about have set up shop.
we're definitely going to have to be careful, though I don't think they've noticed us -- yet.
Strange.
lots of the gendarmes, but also some Americans.
overheard several of them talking as if they worked for "MJ12," but I've got no idea who that might be.
MJ12 must be trying to drive Silhouette from their hideout.
TROOP 1 Something creeps me out about Hela.
I don't know.
TROOP 2 She's from High Command.
They're all like that.
TROOP 1 I think she really gets off being down here.
Have you seen the little nest she set up in the room with the pillars?
The command post?
TROOP 2 She does seem to be in here element.
TROOP 1 .
curling up in her nest like a harpie.
TROOP 2 Man, I'll be glad to get out of here.
TROOP 1 Me too.
I don't like tunnels.
Always sounds like someone's sneaking up on you.
You're entering one of the larger tombs.
Almost six million exhumed bodies were moved to the catacombs as a health measure during the 1700s.
You're close to the bunker where Silhouette has barricaded themselves.
The leader's name is Chad.
Strange.
the area looks different than it does on my map.
Some new construction.
Maybe they've concealed themselves from Majestic 12.
S MEMBER 1 You found the bunker!
We can't let them discover our hideout.
They have us backed into a corner.
The soldiers have occupied the entire city -- and now the tunnels, too.
There's nothing we can do against augmented commandos.
S MEMBER 2 Make sure they don't follow you!
How did you find us?
We are surrounded.
We don't have much time.
They are holding our comrades prisoner.
We are not prepared to fight a war.
We must assume the worst.
PIERRE Who are you?
PIERRE Majestic 12 took my mother prisoner.
PIERRE Bunker 03.
Chad has a key, but he says it's too dangerous to try to rescue her.
Maybe I can change his mind.
PIERRE I hope she's okay.
PIERRE I'm afraid.
What if they kill her?
I think we're next.
(I hope they make it.
) NEWSPAPER Catacombs Closed to Public Paris Investigateur The government announced today that the famous Paris Catacombs would be closed to the public until further notice, citing increased criminal activity and possible terrorist connections to the area.
"The Catacombs have become a haven for any number of unseemly elements," said Inspector Gabily of the Metropolitan Police, "and we are taking all necessary steps to contain this threat to the peace and welfare of Paris citizens.
" The Catacombs are part of an extensive network of tunnels that mostly lie beneath the 5th, 6th, and 14th arrondissements, originally part of larger excavations undertaken by the Romans to remove valuable deposits of gypsum and limestone from the area.
The Catacombs themselves date back to 1786 when bones were removed from the grossly overcrowded Cemetery of Innocents to be stored in the quarries of Mont-Rouge; since that time, innumerable additional burials have resulted in the vast ossuary that exists today.
The publicly accessible sections of the Catacombs are only a small part of the complete tunnel system whose many entrances and exits have made it a popular diversion for cataphiles wishing to explore the underground history of the city.
You might know my brother Paul.
I helped him send your group a warning about the crackdown.
CHAD Denton.
Yes, the satellite transmission.
Saved us from la prison de Fresnes, at least.
How long can your people hold off MJ12?
CHAD We are not mercenaries.
When the troopers moved into the crypts, half of my people retreated without firing a shot.
Two of them took a wrong turn and were taken prisoner.
CHAD In Bunker 03, the tunnels behind the second blast door.
I need to find Nicolette DuClare.
CHAD Nicolette?
What do you want with Nicolette?
CHAD Ah, yes, Beth.
a great woman.
Nicolette is very secretive about her mother's friends.
She tells us that they are wealthy and support our cause, but they have many enemies and need to be protected.
I might be able to help you, but I must be certain of your loyalty.
Just point me to Bunker 03.
CHAD I have a key to the blast door, which is directly across from the hideout.
And a map you might find useful.
Get my people back, and I will put you in touch with Nicolette.
It is unfortunate I cannot send someone with you.
My people are simply not the best soldiers.
We train teams to wire buildings with C4.
They go in at night to avoid confrontation.
In a straight fight against commandos.
they just don't have the equipment or expertise.
I can't bear to imagine what methods of interrogation Majestic 12 will use on my people.
Silhouette is not a military group.
Our attacks are symbolic, intended to influence the public.
We publicize certain things, like the Statue of Liberty bombing.
It's just so fitting that the American government would destroy the gift of freedom we gave your country almost 200 years ago -- and then try to blame it on us!
The rhetoric in Washington has done more to defeat liberty than all the armies and police forces in the world.
When government surveillance and intimidation is called "freedom from terrorism" or "liberation from crime," freedom and liberty have become words without meanings.
I know Majestic 12; when they have learned what they can, they will execute every last one of the prisoners.
This war all around us is being fought over the very meanings of words.
Just as Bakhtin described the novel as a competition between various "languages," so we describe culture itself, which thrives upon convulsion and upheaval.
Culture, by definition a shared territory of meaning, inspires conflicts far more destructive than any dispute over territory on the Earth's surface.
Meaning does not exist a priori.
It is order imposed by individuals with arsenals of communication devices.
Every inscription, every utterance, every gesture seeks to dominate the plain of meaning.
Real violence is only an extension of this process.
In order to get our own message before the public, we too have been violent.
We have even killed people.
But it is the message -- the communication EVENT -- that we target, not a few human beings, or a building, or an historical landmark.
If you expect to help my people, you should get moving.
We don't want the hostages getting caught in the crossfire.
Another WWII bunker.
No sign of MJ12.
Maybe it's vacant.
DATACUBE Agent Hela, We've added a login for you to the Catacombs security network; while still incomplete, it's being extended every day.
We should have the majority of the tunnels completely wired within the next three months.
Login: Hela Password: Ragnarok Again, I'm pleased to know that you and MJ12 will be working closely with us to eradicate the Silhouette infestation from Paris.
Please update me on a daily basis with your surveillance reports and any additional items or information you may require.
-- Gabily BUM Get out!
I was here first!
just looking around.
Aren't you afraid of the commandos?
BUM They better not come back here.
I'm not moving again.
You tell them that.
BUM At least I got away with something.
Want a medkit?
I stole three.
Or what about these poison darts?
600 for a medkit, 200 for the darts.
They moved me out to make room for military supplies.
BUM Okay.
So you want to buy something?
(On second thought, forget it.
I can't carry that right now.
) BUM Good deal.
I'm rich!
Come back tomorrow.
Maybe I can find something else.
I wish I had brought more.
Jock's picking up heat signatures of what look like troops.
The MJ12 bunker must be nearby.
MJ12 squads have set up a base camp in this old World War II bunker.
This is probably where you'll find the hostages.
MJ12 TROOP Two months and I make commando.
Aid Gabily in any way possible to eradicate lingering elements of either Silhouette or the Illuminati.
C.
Denton; any such information is to be sent to Walton Simons directly and immediately.
We have reason to believe that Denton may be traveling to Paris in an attempt to ally himself with the surviving Illuminati, a situation that should be prevented with all due prejudice.
Aston Greer Director of Security, FEMA ANNA We have to get moving.
Watch out for the commandos.
I'll find my way back.
JUVEAU Keep a lookout.
Let's go!
I'm heading back to base.
CHAD Wonderful!
Where are they?
I made sure of it.
CHAD Excellent.
I cannot believe our good fortune.
CHAD Are my people okay?
CHAD No!
It can't be!
CHAD No, do not apologize.
You did your best.
I'm sure you did your best.
CHAD Please, no more apologies.
I appreciate the attempt, though it ended in tragedy.
CHAD Wonderful!
Where are they?
I saved as many as I could.
CHAD How.
many did we lose?
I did my best.
CHAD Yes, of course.
We should be grateful for those who lived.
CHAD Wonderful.
Where are they?
Don't worry; they'll make it.
CHAD You took care of the guards?
CHAD Yes.
Yes, of course.
Thank you so much.
CHAD Now.
You wanted to contact Nicolette.
CHAD You might catch her at Club La Porte de l'Enfer.
I try to tell her it's not safe, but ever since her mother's assassination she has been careless.
She goes out every night as though daring the assassins to show their faces.
CHAD Among other things.
But you can't get there at night.
The roads are blocked.
CHAD The catacombs do not go that far.
You might try the sewers, though.
They can be reached through the rear blast door.
CHAD Unfortunately.
MJ12 closed it before the raid; maybe you can find a key on one of the soldiers.
Thanks again for the help.
Good idea.
I haven't come across that key yet.
CHAD Nicolette has been somewhat mysterious about her reasons for supporting us.
I do not pretend to understand her.
Through her mother's estate, she has provided Silhouette with immense amounts of funding.
I am reluctant to believe her patronage is entirely benign.
What inclines me to trust Nicolette, however, is that her mother's death six months ago -- we are fairly certain -- was the work of Majestic 12.
My impression is that Nicolette supports us against Majestic 12 but that she will have her own agenda when the fighting is over.
I wish Nicolette would be more sensible.
She should find a place to hide and stay there.
Beth DuClare was the only one of our wealthy supporters whom we referred to by name, and she was the one who got killed.
We have learned to keep our mouths shut.
S MEMBER 1 They've back!
Silhouette may yet survive.
You're a brave man.
We are grateful.
PIERRE You did it!
Merci!
Merci!
Thank you, sir.
I thought they were going to kill her.
ANNA We made it!
I can't find the words.
All I can say is thank you.
Now it is time to regroup.
JUVEAU Thank you, sir.
I owe you my life.
They were going to execute us!
I will get revenge.
S MEMBER 2 Thank you for saving our comrades.
Now we have a chance.
We salute your courage.
We will not get caught by surprise again.
S MEMBER 1 I knew it!
They're both dead!
They slaughter us like rats!
This is terrible!
S MEMBER 2 We must give up hope.
They did not make it.
This kind of loss is more than we ever expected.
We must go on.
You did your best.
PIERRE (sobbing) .
Ma pauvre mère.
S MEMBER 1 The other one's dead.
I'm sure of it.
At least someone made it back alive.
S MEMBER 2 We can be thankful -- at least -- that one made it back alive.
You did your best.
If you don't mind the sludge, you'll be able to get around the city without a metro pass.
I think these tunnels connect to the sewers.
You're going the right way.
I just got an unexpected message from Jaime Reyes.
He's at a cafe and wants to see you.
He says it's urgent.
The cafe address is #19.
Above I'm showing MJ12 troops and the Paris police.
Also some bots.
The police won't bother you, but stay away from the troopers.
MJ12 TROOP 1 An American?
MJ12 TROOP 2 UNATCO agent.
Agent Hermann stopped by.
He said we should shoot on sight.
MJ12 TROOP 1 He looks German.
MJ12 TROOP 2 Hermann?
MJ12 TROOP 1 No, the spy, Denton.
How do they know he's in Paris?
MJ12 TROOP 2 UNATCO got Echelon IV back up.
Trust me, they know where he is.
MJ12 TROOP 1 They say Denton has a head full of secrets.
MJ12 TROOP 2 Well, those secrets won't be very valuable splattered on the pavement.
The government has restricted access to the metro.
You'll have to get around on foot.
You found the club, the only one to stay open during martial law.
They've hiked up the cover, but you will have to pay if you want to find out if Nicolette is inside.
That little building is a hostel.
Lodging for backpackers.
These flats go for about five thousand.
Almost as bad as Hong Kong.
Strange.
I'm picking up infrared pulses.
Why would a bakery need electronic security?
A digital media store.
Don't waste your money in those places.
You can get anything you want for two credits on the black market in Asia.
POLICE Clear the streets.
The metro is closed until further notice.
Remember to stay within your arrondissement after dark.
The security bots have been given the faces of over one thousand terrorists.
The city will not take responsibility for mistaken identity.
You would be safest in your place of residence.
We have asked business-owners to close down.
Stay away of your surroundings at all times.
The new government does not provide us with specific information to share with the public.
We have been told only that the danger to the public today is high.
New travel restrictions.
Consult the papers.
Sir, what is your business tonight?
Keep moving.
We have reports of terrorist activity.
Stay inside.
Only a few businesses are open.
Not much to do tonight.
Not a good night to be on the street.
My advice: get a room and wait for morning.
Some trouble with Silhouette.
Stay out of public places, anywhere susceptible to terrorist attack.
The security forces are for your protection.
This building is being watched.
You will be safe here.
DATACUBE Welcome to Paris, the City of Lights!
This map will help to familiarize you with the Champs-Elysées, the spiritual and cultural heart of the city.
During the day the Champs-Elysées is a bustling street of boutiques and government offices, but it is only at night that it comes truly alive, a place of cafes and clubs, of theatres and cabaret.
While many visitors only see the glittering main avenue, those who are a bit more adventurous might venture off the beaten path and be rewarded with a taste of old Paris in the dark back streets and alleys away from the flashing lights and hustle of tourists.
LEONE I am not paid to advise tourists.
I just want to know if you've heard of Nicolette DuClare.
LEONE I have no dealings with Miss DuClare.
I sweep the streets.
That is my life.
Where would she be this time of night?
LEONE I don't have money to waste on that place.
Number 13, Club La Porte de l'Enfer.
Puh!
A private club for rich phonies.
thanks.
LEONE If you want Renault, he is in the bar at the hostel.
What would I want with Renault?
LEONE You aren't who he was going to hire?
The professional thief?
LEONE Enough talk.
I do not want to know about your business.
My job was cleaning up the streets.
Now I hide from the security forces.
They still send the money every month, so I don't complain.
MANAGER Sorry -- all full tonight.
Her name's Nicolette DuClare.
MANAGER No.
I know nothing about that.
Leave me alone.
I never heard of anything called Silhouette.
I mind my own business.
As you see, we rent a decent hotel, but we do not know everything about our tenants.
BARTENDER Can I help you?
BARTENDER A couple of thugs.
Ignore them.
What would you like?
Wine is 120.
Snacks are 5.
BARTENDER Mmmm.
No, I am sorry.
Is she a guest of the hotel?
BARTENDER You want Club La Porte de l'Enfer.
No revolutionaries here.
BARTENDER Number 13, I believe.
Yes?
You must not mind martial law.
BARTENDER The only way to maintain order.
BARTENDER A small inconvenience.
The city must be kept safe for those of us who are working and trying to pull the country out of this depression.
BARTENDER These stories -- I hear them every day, always from someone who wants to blame other people for his bad luck.
Yes?
BARTENDER And I bet you have a little booklet that will tell me all about it, no?
BARTENDER Good.
I was afraid you were going to tell me about the Illuminati.
BARTENDER Oh -- I see.
Yes?
Oh, wait a minute.
I'm too loaded down to carry anything else.
BARTENDER Why do you need so much junk?
Maybe there's something I can get rid of.
BARTENDER Yes?
BARTENDER The house Cabernet, on special.
Yes?
BARTENDER The kitchen is close.
Will a candy bar suffice?
BARTENDER Yes?
BARTENDER You must have -- how do you say?
- a sweet tooth.
GUY Hello.
Talk to Renault.
Yeh, yeh.
RENAULT So?
RENAULT Great if you like rat piss.
RENAULT You look like a smart guy.
You want to make some money?
Yes?
I need to hire a thief.
RENAULT The baker at Number 15 keeps zyme -- 100 percent pure -- in one of the ovens.
RENAULT Same deal.
Fifty credits each vial.
RENAULT Fifty credits each vial.
The place has boobytraps.
Otherwise, I would break in myself.
RENAULT A dirty business.
I understand.
Addiction's another form of slavery.
RENAULT Yes.
of course.
Your hands will not get dirty.
Sixty-five credits, okay?
The most I can offer.
Period.
RENAULT Guy -- we have a problem.
GUY Fine.
No deal.
Go away.
GUY Renault said: enough!
RENAULT Like I said, Building 15.
RENAULT The bakery is owned by Sicilians.
This is how they do drop-off in the Champs- Elysées.
I do not wish trouble with the mafia.
Get there first, and avoid being seen.
I will wait for you here.
Speak.
You begin to waste my time.
Enough talk.
GUY Always honor your promises.
Be a professional.
Renault will pay.
We are trusting in your discretion.
Leave us now.
1 RENAULT Speak.
2 RENAULT You begin to waste my time.
3 RENAULT Enough talk.
) NEWSPAPER Bot Kills Three in Accidental Shooting APR - Paris, France Yves-Pierre Adrien, Dominique Vittet, and Marie Philibert were heading home from a late night on the town when they were gunned down in the street by a military robot that mistakenly identified them as terrorists.
Since the institution of martial law in Paris, bots have regularly patrolled those areas with a high level of criminal activity, armed with a visual database profiling thousands of wanted terrorists, thieves, and drug dealers.
"It was awful," said Kristi Amiel.
A waitress at Enfant Terrible -- a nearby cafe where the trio had their last cup of coffee -- she was witness to the shooting.
"The bot just kept shooting and shooting until all you could hear was an empty clicking sound, then one of the soldiers ran into the control station across the street trying to shut it down, but nothing happened.
It just kept clicking.
trying to shoot them again.
" Police Prefect Hubert Dupuy defended the practice during a news conference earlier today.
"The bots are programmed to only use lethal force if the suspects resist arrest, and while these deaths are tragedies to be mourned, it in no way compromises the effectiveness of bots in keeping Parisians safe.
" POLICE It's happened again!
RENAULT Excellent.
Now do we make a deal?
Sixty-five apiece?
RENAULT Never mind the bartender; he is cool.
RENAULT Good job.
We must work together again when I will find out where they move the drop-off.
RENAULT I like the soldiers everywhere.
They make my business very profitable.
Maybe you will change your mind.
We could develop a partnership.
Remember: I always pay a fair price.
Be careful of the local police.
GUY The Sicilians.
You are correct to wish to leave town.
We are trusting in your discretion.
Leave us now.
Renault is grateful.
A good piece of work.
We respect that.
BARTENDER Thank you.
It was time somebody stood up to Renault.
BARTENDER In any case, I do not want criminals comfortable here.
They scare away customers.
How can I repay you for what you have done?
BARTENDER I know.
You must be interested in weapons.
I have nothing to give you, but in Building 11 there is an arms smuggler.
He's out of town right now.
I hope business picks up.
Never mind.
HOTEL MAID Excusez-moi.
I clean all the rooms every day.
The front desk is downstairs.
No danger of parasites.
We have a bar, too, downstairs in the back.
BOOK Petals of Twilight by Charles Francois Guillermot .
And it is told that he made his way through their streets at night, crawling through their many windows and crouching in their gardens, moving through the sewers beneath their cobbled roads and slipping over their railings.
Watched by their cats and the roosting pidgeons of their city, yet wary of their slumbering dogs, he went.
They would not see him, nor wake as he drew near, but would only shudder, softly calling out the names of their gods in sleep.
Restless, they tossed as he passed under the window like an errant lover fleeing dawn.
And by morning light he was gone, away from that place, and moved on to another world.
ICARUS Observe your motivations for breaking the arbitrary laws of the current government.
Do not miss your chance to be one of us and create the new world order.
DATACUBE I was at Porte de l'Enfer last night and managed to get some stupide American to buy me a drink, then peeked his code when he wasn't looking.
Do me a favor, pull some cash from his account and get your petit ami to pick me up some zyme -- it is fabulous, the new thing from New York.
004418,morbus13 Bon sois!
Anne BOOK Common Sense by Thomas Paine .
SOME writers have so confounded society with government, as to leave little or no distinction between them; whereas they are not only different, but have different origins.
Society is produced by our wants, and government by wickedness; the former promotes our happiness positively by uniting our affections, the latter negatively by restraining our vices.
The one encourages intercourse, the other creates distinctions.
The first is a patron, the last a punisher.
Society in every state is a blessing, but government even in its best state is but a necessary evil; in its worst state an intolerable one; for when we suffer, or are exposed to the same miseries by a government, which we might expect in a country without government, our calamity is heightened by reflecting that we furnish the means by which we suffer.
Government, like dress, is the badge of lost innocence; the palaces of kings are built on the ruins of the bowers of paradise.
For were the impulses of conscience clear, uniform, and irresistibly obeyed, man would need no other lawgiver; but that not being the case, he finds it necessary to surrender up a part of his property to furnish means for the protection of the rest; and this he is induced to do by the same prudence which in every other case advises him out of two evils to choose the least.
DATACUBE METROPOLITAN BANK OF PARIS 1, rue d'Astore established 1834 Dear Customer: A recent hacking attempt has made it necessary to change the passwords on a number of our accounts to insure the security of our patrons.
Please note that your account has in no way been compromised; this is merely a precaution.
If you have any questions, please feel to contact a Metropolitan Bank Customer Care Advocate.
Account: 005133 PIN: salem008 Thank you, METROPOLITAN BANK RENE Come with me to America.
O Oh, Rene!
RENE The pilot says I can bring one person.
O The United States is no fun.
What about the coup attempt?
RENE Think about it, O.
A small town in the Rocky Mountains.
We would be together.
O Oooo, yes, we could find the terrorists that attacked the White House.
They could terrorize me, and you could help.
RENE Be serious.
The people are well-organized in the mountain states, and they are justified in attacking the government.
We will go to the Northwest.
O You better promise me some guerrillas, at least.
What about your mother?
RENE She is not prepared for the rugged life in the mountains.
O And I am?

RENE We're young, O.
We're ready to wrestle grizzly bears if we have to.
O My dear, grizzly bears have been extinct for decades.
RENE You know what I mean.
O Always a romantic.
You never let real life interfere with your plans.
RENE It will be a test -- what you are always wanting -- a test of your love.
O This is what would happen.
Finding nothing but pinecones and snow in the mountains, we would take a bus to one of the cities and stand in line for sandwiches -- RENE But O -- O -- in the rain, unemployed and without a home, having chosen to emigrate during the worst economic disaster North America has ever known.
RENE I already have work with the militia.
O The what?
RENE In America, the people have a long tradition of joining militias to keep their local communities safe and free.
O You?
A soldier!
At your age!
RENE I have been sipping my life away in cafes.
I am going to plant my feet on the earth, hold a rifle to my chest, and dare any man to move me.
O There you go.
Now you are sounding like a man.
And if I say no, you're going to drag me by the hair all the way across the Atlantic.
RENE Yes!
Yes, I will!
O If you're looking for that crook with the weapons, he lives next door.
Okay.
Time for you to go.
Leave us alone.
RENE Hey, this is our apartment!
S'il vous plait.
I said get out!
BOOK The Eye of Argon by Jim Theis The weather beaten trail wound ahead into the dust racked climes of the baren land which dominates large portions of the Norgolian empire.
Age worn hoof prints smothered by the sifting sands of time shone dully against the dust splattered crust of earth.
The tireless sun cast its parching rays of incandescense from overhead, half way through its daily revolution.
Small rodents scampered about, occupying themselves in the daily accomplishments of their dismal lives.
Dust sprayed over three heaving mounts in blinding clouds, while they bore the burdonsome cargoes of their struggling overseers.
"Prepare to embrace your creators in the stygian haunts of hell, barbarian," gasped the first soldier.
"Only after you have kissed the fleeting stead of death, wretch!
" returned Grignr.
DATACUBE METROPOLITAN BANK OF PARIS 1, rue d'Astore established 1834 Dear Customer: A recent hacking attempt has made it necessary to change the passwords on a number of our accounts to insure the security of our patrons.
Please note that your account has in no way been compromised; this is merely a precaution.
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact a Metropolitan Bank Customer Care Advocate.
Account: 002639 PIN: aramis01 Thank you, METROPOLITAN BANK BULLETINS INTERPOL WANTED: J.
C.
Denton Interpol is currently seeking the whereabouts of a known terrorist J.
C.
Denton.
Denton is wanted for a number of international crimes including theft, murder, money laundering, drug trafficking, and destruction of property.
Denton was last believed to have been sighted in New York, but recent information indicates that he may currently be operating in Paris.
Denton is approximately six feet tall, with silver facial tattoos and solid blue eyes -- the result of a rare genetic condition that he often conceals with a pair of sunglasses.
Denton is extremely dangerous and should NOT be approached.
Instead, if you believe you have seen him, contact your nearest police or security representative.
There is currently a reward of c10,000 for information that leads to his capture or arrest.
Interpol is also attempting to locate Alex Jacobson and Jaime Reyes for questioning in a number of related incidents.
No descriptions are available at this time, but will be posted as they become available.
READ ME ICARUS FOUND YOU!


  ICARUS FOUND YOU!


    ICARUS FOUND YOU!


      ICARUS FOUND YOU!


        ICARUS FOUND YOU!


          ICARUS FOUND YOU!


            ICARUS FOUND YOU!


              ICARUS FOUND YOU!


                ICARUS FOUND YOU!


                RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


              RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


            RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


          RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


        RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


      RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


    RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


  RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


RUN WHILE YOU CAN!


Curfew Hours Extended Due to a rise in criminal activity in the last week, curfew hours are now extended from 10PM to 6AM.
Individuals found in violation of curfew may be punished with a fine of up to c5,000 and one year in jail.
Patrolling bots are authorized to detain suspicious individuals as necessary, and residents are urged to respect instructions from a bot the same as they would a police representative.
The Catacombs and all surrounding tunnels continue to remain off-limits to residents; any individual found in the Catacombs will be presumed to be engaged in felonious activities until proven otherwise.
Police have been sanctioned to respond to such activities with lethal force if required.
/root/.
/misdirect::8009 21:33:02 FILE BUFFER OVERLOAD REIRECT//TRUTHNET.
3 Lies?
TRUTH!
Citizens of Paris, did you even turn in your sleep as your freedom was seized from you?
Did you hear them when they told you it was done in your name?
Or did you simply wake from your dream and never question the reality of your slavery?
The City of Lights has been extinguished by Shadows.
Our government has been taken from us.
We live in fear of jack-booted troops and hulking, clanking tools of oppression, afraid to travel from one arrondissement to another.
Where is the city of our dreams?
The Pigalle has become the grave for our buried joy, the Champs-Elysées rings of nothing but the dirge of our forgotten hopes.
We let this happen, we _all_ let this happen -- but it is not too late!
We are free in our hearts and our minds, and it is there that true rebellion must begin.
Look to those who would unify us only to enslave us.
Look to those who would make us rich but rob our souls.
Look to those who would protect our safety by stealing our liberty.
Question everything.
Believe nothing.
Take action in the places they cannot see and they can never conquer us.
SILHOUETTE, MINISTER OF TRUE LIES TANDIS QU'ILS DORMENT, NOUS GAGNERONS NEWSPAPER Police Raid Catacombs Paris Investigateur Earlier today the police raided the Catacombs, entering through Denfert- Rochereau, Port Royal, Trocadero, and a number of other, unidentified locations, in an attempt to round up elements of the terrorist group Silhouette.
Sources within the Metropolitan Police Department indicated that since the institution of martial law the number of terrorist incidents has declined, but Silhouette still remains active in its so-called "Campaign of True Lies.
" "Far from being a harmless group of reactionaries, Silhouette presents a clear and ongoing threat to the public welfare," said Inspector Gabily, currently leading the case.
Despite extensive surveillance prior to the raid, however, police found minimal evidence of Silhouette's presence, instead capturing a number of drug dealers, prostitutes, and other suspected criminals.
"All in all, we consider the operation a success," insisted Gabily.
"We've made a strong statement that Paris -- above or below -- will not be a haven to radicals and thieves.
" CAFE CHEF If you have a request, talk to my assistant, Raymond.
He always seems to be looking for something to do.
I am busy.
They will serve you up front.
RAYMOND If you want a job, talk to Kristi.
The chef already has an assistant: me.
With business the way it is, because of the soldiers scaring everybody, we won't be hiring anybody soon.
This is a very difficult job.
Not for everyone.
I don't think you would work out.
The chef has exacting tastes.
I must get back to work.
BOOK Coq au Vin 1 chicken, cut into 9 pieces 2 tbsp unsalted butter 10 oz pearl onions, peeled 4 slices bacon, cut into 10cm pieces 1 tbsp flour 3/4 cup of chicken stock 1 bouquet garni 2 cups of red wine 1 tbsp red wine vinegar Salt and pepper, garlic Brown the chicken in the butter in a frying pan over moderate heat.
Place chicken in a heavy casserole.
Brown the onions and bacon in the frying pan and add to the chicken.
Add the flour and stir well.
Add stock, bouquet garni, wine, salt and pepper.
Stir and pour over the chicken.
Cover and simmer 30 minutes.
Add the red wine vinegar.
Degrease the sauce before serving.
KRISTI What would you like?
Everything ten credits.
1 KRISTI Santé.
2 KRISTI Did you change your mind?
no room.
I can't carry anything else.
KRISTI This will be our only dish until the trucks start running again.
KRISTI We will never close, no matter what.
KRISTI Not yet, but the police programmed the bots to shoot anyone who leaves his arrondissement after dark.
KRISTI A leader of Silhouette.
A true patriot.
KRISTI Where the criminals and students go at night, La Porte de l'Enfer, just across the street.
This crackdown is the work of Majestic 12.
(The police are just pawns of Majestic 12.
) KRISTI You mean the European Union.
KRISTI I don't care what they call themselves.
I have seen it since I was a girl, the plotting and scheming of corporations to make Europe into one big country with no separate languages, cultures, or tastes.
NEWSPAPER Somnolente Ile Scandal Resurfaces Paris Investigateur Accusations of cover-ups within President Bourges-Manoury's administration have recently appeared in several tabloid publications, linking key members of his Council of Ministers to the Somnolente Ile scandal that resulted in President Serra's exit from politics five years ago.
Somnolente Ile, an exclusive resort in Cote d'Azur, was the site of a clandestine meeting between then President Serra and reputed members of the Zuganov crime family in an attempt to funnel almost three billion credits of tainted money through French banks.
The deal was reportedly brokered by a cabal of major banking interests -- including deceased financier Beth DuClare, though her involvement was never proved.
Some sources went so far as to suggest that the entire meeting was the result of a plot hatched by the "Bilderbergs," a supposedly secret society formed of wealthy and powerful industrialists shortly after World War II.
President Bourges-Manoury has dismissed the accusations as "ludicrous," calling such stories "the lowest example of irresponsible journalism" before refusing further comment.
JAIME REYES Thought you could run for a weekend in Paris without me, huh?
JAIME REYES They intercepted a message Alex sent to my home account, instructions on how to find him in Hong Kong.
JAIME REYES I destroyed my keystore.
But they've been tracking you with an IA program.
They've sent Gunther to assassinate you in Paris.
JAIME REYES However, you don't have to find Gunther -- or any other mechanically augmented agent.
JAIME REYES UNATCO never trusted its augmented agents.
Any mech can be stopped in its tracks with a secret killphrase.
JAIME REYES Gunther's is "Laputan machine".
Dug that out of the medical records before I left.
Easy enough.
Thanks for looking out for me, staying at the agency and all.
JAIME REYES Don't mention it.
At the sound of your voice, 400 milliamps will discharge into Gunther's midbrain.
Poof!
I wasn't the only one who got purged.
Carter's gone also.
"Questionable loyalty.
" Can you believe that?
CARTER?
I think Simons was afraid he knew too much.
All of the older guys were let go.
Anyone with non-UNATCO experience.
Carter told me he was going to contact Gary Savage of the X-51 researchers.
I don't know how they know each other, but Carter said, "Savage is right; it's time to do something with Area 51.
" You know Carter, taciturn as ever.
Who knows what he was talking about.
I'm going to stay here until the soldiers calm down.
I saw Gunther leave the club a few hours ago; I heard he was asking about you.
Be careful, JC.
JOSHUA He's our son.
We can't have him murdering people for this -- this -- Majestic 12.
AGATHE He's not a child anymore.
JOSHUA This CULT.
AGATHE At least he has a position.
He's SAFE.
JOSHUA Any organization with anonymous leadership.
AGATHE They might control Europe for decades.
Michel will have to survive somehow.
JOSHUA I would rather he die with the rest of us.
AGATHE Joshua!
First and in your heart you are a father.
How dare you let politics -- JOSHUA I am a Frenchman.
AGATHE You have abandoned your own son.
JOSHUA Perhaps I want to take the metro to see my mother, yes?
Should I forget Mother - - and my own freedom to travel -- so that Michel can have a small salary?
AGATHE There are difficult times.
I don't deny it.
JOSHUA He and his new friends murdered the Loredans simply because the old man ran a journal.
Next time, he will come to murder us.
JOSHUA They have us, yes.
Majestic 12, whoever they are.
When you have the youth, you have everything.
AGATHE Joshua, be careful.
You don't know this man.
JOSHUA I will not hide under a rock!
I would like to see the end of Majestic 12 as much as you would.
I was just surprised to find a Parisian who has heard the name.
JOSHUA Well.
my son, you know.
I learn what I can about him.
JOSHUA You are one of the revolutionaries, eh?
Maybe you can do something with this: "streetstation17" and "werewolf" -- from a card in his wallet.
I think it is the login for the guard shack up the street.
AGATHE What about Michel?
You'll get him killed.
JOSHUA He was the one who wanted to be a soldier.
That is what I know.
I have helped you to kill my own son.
It is that not enough?
I said go!
(I don't know you.
Leave me alone.
I am not in the mood for talking.
What is your problem?
) AGATHE You've done enough.
Go.
Oh, poor Michel.
If you see him.
tall, you know, dark hair.
don't shoot.
He's our child.
I know they all look the same in those uniforms.
JON Bonjour monsieur.
Papa forbids me to talk to strangers.
Leave me alone.
Resistance members aren't the only ones fond of the discrete staff and plentiful shadows.
Watch your back.
LOUIS Three hundred credits.
LOUIS He is the key.
It will be valid for this evening only.
We are forced to let anybody in, because business is so slow.
Next time you might not be so lucky.
I am tired of seeing your face.
LOUIS You are not our first choice of customer, either.
( LOUIS Get out!
What are you doing?
Out!
I mean it!
You like the nurse, eh?
She's all right.
LOUIS You stay away from her.
Camille is a good woman.
Bad?
LOUIS You sneak into places you don't belong without paying.
Eh?
Am I right?
A criminal!
Give me the 300 credits or I call the police!
(You sneaky swine.
Pay the three-hundred credit cover or I will report you to the police.
) 1.
Here you are.
LOUIS I spit on your apology, but I will accept your money.
Do not try that again.
You think you're so smart.
Ha!
You will get yourself killed!
Go!
LOUIS No!
You -- you will pay!
I will make you pay!
) CLUB SECURITY Please keep your weapons concealed.
Obey the rules and enjoy yourself.
No fighting.
Get a drink, relax, and enjoy yourself.
The people who come here prefer to be left alone.
Mr.
Tarot asks that I do not talk to guests.
JEAN Qu'est-ce que je vous sers?
Has martial law hurt business?
JEAN Hurt business?
HURT BUSINESS?
You can't even get on the metro.
How can you get to the club without the metro?
JEAN Oui!
Oui!
The only way is to crawl on your belly like a stinking rat.
That's all we get: stinking rats!
JEAN Rats!
And the Gestapo!
And THEY want free drinks!
JEAN Not French soldiers.
Some of them don't even speak French!
JEAN Oui!
There was a coup.
We see the President only on video recording, and sweat is dripping from his mustache because -- it is obvious -- someone is pointing a gun at his head!
(Never mind.
) Ten credits' worth of food.
JEAN Ten credits of nanite-enriched chocolate.
JEAN This is what we have.
(JEAN What is the matter?
no room.
I can't carry anything else.
) ARTHUR Pretty lady, eh?
I love this place!
Get down!
Go, cat, go!
Yeah!
A nurse!
Loosen up.
KATARINA Pissy night, huh?
This place used to be a party.
People don't go out anymore.
Even my friends in the Champs Elysées.
The coup is such a drag.
There's nothing to do anymore.
CAMILLE Hi, baby.
What's your name?
CAMILLE Mmmm.
Mysterious.
Want to know my initials?
CAMILLE Anything you like, cutie.
Twenty credits.
CAMILLE So who do you want to find?
CAMILLE I see now.
You are in love.
You poor man.
She has already given her heart to one of the revolutionaries.
Could you tell me if she's here?
CAMILLE You have a look, yes, a tough-guy look, but you cannot compare to a real revolutionary.
They have their own private society upstairs.
You will be happier down here.
Another twenty credits?
CAMILLE Change your mind?
Have that twenty credits?
CAMILLE I can tell you about Antoine, the thief.
Should I be keeping an eye on my credit chits?
CAMILLE He pretends to be a big-time smuggler, but really he just steals things from the augmentation clinic where his mother works.
CAMILLE You will find him lurking in a dark corner.
I bet he will try to sell you something.
Am I telling you what you want to know?
Can I have another twenty credits?
CAMILLE Who next.
Jocques, the accountant?
Tell me about Jocques.
CAMILLE He grew up here in the Champs-Elysées.
He knows everybody.
If you're looking for a particular person.
CAMILLE He is in the office behind the south bar.
What do you say?
Another twenty credits?
CAMILLE This time I tell you about myself.
CAMILLE My name is Camille.
I'm a writer.
What are you doing in a place like this?
CAMILLE I'm working on a novel.
If I dress up like a nurse twice a week, I make enough money to write the other five days.
CAMILLE Funny how the traffic of credits brings our dreams and fantasies to life; every transaction is like a small prayer.
If so many men have a thing for nurses, you can be sure someone will be standing right where I am, collecting the offerings.
CAMILLE Sure, baby, if you say so.
But if my novel ever gets published -- that would be four hundred pages of pure information -- think you would put down the ten credits to get it?
CAMILLE You have to share.
I must amuse the others now.
Come again!
Same time next week.
Manufacture steroids in your muscles?
You are interested!
One bioelectric cell, 250 credits.
Another bioelectric cell?
250 credits.
(I can't carry anything else.
Hold on, I'll go through my junk.
Another bioelectric cell?
250 credits.
Sorry -- I am out of energy devices.
Come back again in a few days.
I am always sitting right here.
CHARLOTTE Chad's dead.
ANNETTE No.
CHARLOTTE The police are making a clean sweep through the catacombs.
He can't hide.
ANNETTE Silhouette knows what to do in these situations.
CHARLOTTE I told him this would happen, but he would not let go of his Voltaire delusions.
ANNETTE Maybe he IS a Voltaire.
We don't know.
CHARLOTTE WAS Voltaire.
ANNETTE Chad knows exactly what he is doing.
He will be a great hero in French history.
CHARLOTTE A martyr, maybe, not a philosophe.
ANNETTE He's quoted all over the world.
CHARLOTTE Slogans, antics, no Contrat social.
ANNETTE Ideas take many forms.
CHARLOTTE He recycles the past.
It is nothing special to be a reactionary who tries to revive the same old rhetoric.
ANNETTE Political freedom is "rhetoric?
" CHARLOTTE A necessary deception of the industrial age.
ANNETTE A realization, rather, of the value of human life.
CHARLOTTE Human life was valuable only in one sense.
Suddenly any person was a unit of labor in the factory system, roughly equivalent to all others, and was therefore a transferable resource.
ANNETTE It was the greatest age this planet has ever seen.
The age of invention, of self-reliance, of the individual artist.
CHARLOTTE And transferable resources must be free to move about, in response to market forces.
That's "freedom.
" Now that most people don't produce anything of value - - ANNETTE We're talking about the inherent worth of an individual, not economic utility.
CHARLOTTE Now that only a few people create wealth -- the scientists, engineers, bankers, and so on -- we require an arrangement of the few over the inert mass the rest of us have become.
ANNETTE A nation's government does not have to bow down beneath economic laws.
CHARLOTTE That is where we differ.
I believe the evolution is always in that direction.
Chad's alive.
ANNETTE You've seen him?
Where?
Is he okay?
CHARLOTTE An American accent.
What business do you have with Silhouette?
They're planning the same in my own country.
CHARLOTTE What would L'Armée De Terre want with America?
It was an international paramilitary group called Majestic 12.
ANNETTE What about Chad?
How is he?
I'm going to meet up with a friend of his named Nicolette DuClare.
She can lead me to a powerful enemy of the conspirators.
ANNETTE Nicolette -- oh, yeah, she's here.
She -- CHARLOTTE She does not want to be found.
CHARLOTTE She realizes how foolish is to antagonize the government and has gone into hiding.
Nicolette is in enough trouble as it is.
Leave us alone.
ANNETTE My friend is right.
Nicolette told us not to trust anyone.
I'm sorry.
ANNETTE You know Nicolette?
CHARLOTTE You will only get yourself arrested.
Stay away from Miss DuClare.
ANNETTE You're serious about the conspiracy, huh?
I still think it's just the military.
You'd better not get Nicolette in trouble with the authorities.
CHARLOTTE I cannot believe she would trust you.
You must be lying.
Leave us alone.
(ANNETTE How rude!
Leave me alone!
I am not afraid of you.
CHARLOTTE Stay away from me!
Don't make me call security!
I said leave me alone.
) MICHELLE What will it be?
A snack for 10 credits, wine for 120.
MICHELLE What do you want with Miss DuClare?
MICHELLE This club has good security.
You try something, you won't be arrested.
You will be dead.
MICHELLE She would have told me to expect you.
MICHELLE They have the right idea, but they are weak.
MICHELLE The people are ready to fight.
Foreign troops go down the street every day, not even afraid of being seen.
They control the United Nations and plot against other governments as well.
MICHELLE What we need is an army.
Silhouette should be organizing resistance, not spreading around slogans everybody already agrees with.
MICHELLE Tenez.
1 MICHELLE Bon appetit.
2 MICHELLE Certainly.
JACQUES The bartender will help you.
I am the accountant.
Have you heard of Silhouette?
JACQUES So.
you're in that game.
Don't say a word; I don't want to know.
But for 1,000 credits I'll give you the address of an arms smuggler who is out of town.
Do you need guns?
JACQUES His apartment is down the street, Building 11.
JACQUES Of course.
But it will be worth it.
Trust me.
I am your man.
No more talking.
What we do not know about you, we cannot tell the authorities.
JACQUES Talk to me again.
I am our man.
Change your mind?
You have 1,000 credits to learn the location of the most advanced weapons?
DATACUBE New storeroom code is 1966 -- make sure not to sample any of the absinthe this time, eh?
I will be checking the bottles.
-- Louis CASSANDRA Have a light?
CASSANDRA What's your name?
CASSANDRA Hey, can I ask a favor?
I'm out of money.
Have any spare chits?
CASSANDRA My friends work here.
CASSANDRA Oh, yes, I used to work in the office.
I could tell you anything.
How about 200 credits?
I could give you the code to the saferoom.
CASSANDRA It's just a little room with a keypad back where the offices are.
The code's 1966.
CASSANDRA They never change the code.
Idiots.
As far as I'm concerned, this place could burn down.
They said I was stealing, which isn't true.
Everybody else was doing exactly the same thing.
They pay you NOTHING to work here.
You can't even LIVE on it.
I hope Mr.
Tarot tries to throw me out.
I'd like to see him try!
Great jacket.
Trés chic.
2-3.
1 CASSANDRA It would be worth it.
Trust me.
Come on.
200 credits.
You will find much more than that in the saferoom.
Know her?
CASSANDRA I don't want to get mixed up in any of that.
I stay out of other people's business.
CASSANDRA You know, how they used to steal sunglasses from the street cops or run by with scissors and cut off their ties?
That kind of thing -- always calling attention to themselves.
I think they were trying to save Paris from exactly what's going on right now.
CASSANDRA Funny way of doing it.
And pretty dangerous.
Once people know who you are, you can be killed, just like that.
Just like Nicolette's mother.
Enough!
I'm not saying her name again.
CASSANDRA Are you sure?
Looks like that code isn't gonna be as valuable as you thought.
CASSANDRA Oh, great.
I really hit bottom this time.
That was my last chance to make any cash.
I hope you're happy.
KARA I know the bathroom is unisex, but just wait a minute, will you?
Oh!
This is shameful!
I will bring it up to Mr.
Tarot personally.
Do you find yourself amusing?
SAMI Uhhh.
Je suis malade.
Je suis épileptique.
Laissez-moi tranquille.
TAROT Everything is satisfactory, I trust?
We remodeled the upstairs, you may have noticed.
Many customers wanted quiet areas where they could talk.
I think I finally struck the perfect balance between the Dionysian and Apollonian.
What do you think?
We get a rather iconoclastic crowd these days.
The place does not fill up until very late.
I should be getting back to my duties.
Pleasure to meet you.
Have a good time.
KARENNA Claude?
Oh, sorry, my mistake.
Claude was a friend of mine.
Silly of me.
I still think I see him sometimes.
He got shot by one of the guards here.
They've started using real ammunition.
It was a mistake.
These other people were fighting, and Claude just wanted to get away.
He had this tough-guy look; the guards just assumed.
You should be careful, too.
Everybody is very tense these days.
They think anybody who looks a little funny is a terrorist.
WOMAN So?
WOMAN I know her name.
I know that her mother called her "Angel.
It's a friend of her mother's I need to find.
WOMAN Angel.
That would make her a fallen angel now, wouldn't it?
You must be after Everett.
How did you guess?
WOMAN What makes you think Nicolette would betray one of her mother's closest friends?
Chad will vouch for me.
I'm after the people who murdered her mother.
WOMAN You are an assassin or something?
WOMAN Go out behind the club.
I will talk to Nicolette and perhaps she will meet you there.
She will insist that you meet her alone.
If you are lying, she will not hesitate to kill you.
Out back.
Five minutes.
PARIS - NEAR CHAMPS ELYSEES DATACUBE NAVI 008-BLUE v4.
Sauvignon Blanc for Marie * Download Navi 4.
31 security patch JOCK See if your friend's ready to go.
NICOLETTE I am Nicolette.
I will help you simply to make trouble for Majestic 12.
It's true: they killed my mother.
NICOLETTE She was an Illuminatus.
The only people MJ12 has ever feared are the Illuminati.
NICOLETTE How do you know Dowd?
NICOLETTE A trusted friend of my mother's.
Yes, the Illuminati are wiped out, but Page still fears Morgan Everett.
NICOLETTE One of my mother's many secrets.
We'll have to look for clues at my family's chateau.
NICOLETTE Page was an Illuminatus.
For him, intellect is the foundation of power, and that would make Everett his most dangerous rival.
NICOLETTE Both the Illuminati and MJ12 believe that the most intelligent or "enlightened" human being will inevitably gain power, ultimately seizing the eye in the pyramid and creating the world for everyone else.
Kind of secularized version of Natural Law.
NICOLETTE He is still vulnerable.
Much of his power comes from secret laboratories, meaning the right person could reverse-engineer his whole power-base.
Wait by the chopper.
I'm not quite ready to leave.
NICOLETTE We don't have all night.
JOCK I think Nicolette's getting impatient.
Get Nicolette and I'll take you to her mother's chateau.
NICOLETTE Ready?
NICOLETTE You trust the guy in the helicopter?
Don't worry; he hasn't let me down yet.
Come on.
NICOLETTE It won't be easy to find Everett.
Secrecy is a matter of life and death for the Illuminati.
I haven't been home since the assassination six months ago.
I have no idea what to expect.
Your friend looks impatient.
Let's go.
JOCK Let's hit it!
PARIS - CHATEAU DUCLARE NICOLETTE I had not wanted to see this place again.
NICOLETTE I was afraid it would be like this -- the same.
Not a stone out of place.
NICOLETTE I would rather.
No, let's go.
Only in novels do places crumble to dust for no reason, when their spirit is lost.
NICOLETTE Lead the way.
I no longer have a key.
We must find my mother's secret computer room, where she did all her work, a place she kept hidden even from me.
I good place to start would be my mom's bedroom, upstairs.
My mother and I were no longer speaking at the time of her death.
I left home because she and her Illuminati cronies were always pushing me into things.
I was a rotten student, but that didn't stop them from getting me enrolled at La Sorbonne.
I was a stand-in for the world they never got to take over.
Some conspiracy, huh?
They couldn't even control little Nicolette.
This place sure is quiet.
Right to the very end, my mother believed they were going to stitch the group back together and rule the world.
Pitiful, if you think about it, like a senile old lady, filling her house with the unopened boxes from mail-order sweepstakes.
But my mother was remarkable in her own way.
I overheard her tell Everett one night that she had calculated Majestic 12's private key.
Right here where I grew up, she was tracking a global conspiracy and trying to do something about it.
She had a secret computer room, some kind of monitoring station.
I heard her talk about it, but I never found the entrance.
Even when we were on bad terms, I continued to deliver money to Silhouette, because I knew how important they were to my mother's plans.
I also wanted to help Chad.
A group like Silhouette has a lot to gain from an alliance with the Illuminati -- in the short term.
In the long term -- Well, if my mother had been successful, we would be trying to stop the Illuminati right now instead of Majestic 12.
Where now?
Dull place to grow up, huh?
I'm so glad I moved to the city.
You lead.
Crazy.
I lost my virginity out here.
I believe Mom was out conspiring to get me into La Sorbonne at the time.
Mom hated this maze.
We inherited this thing from one of the former owners.
I'm pulling up the floorplan.
an old summer home built during the Third Republic.
It's been vacant since Miss DuClare's assassination.
Hopefully these elegant rooms contain some clues about the DuClare family's involvement with the Illuminati.
NICOLETTE Mom and Everett used to sit out here sipping martinis and plotting to take over the world.
That's how we all got in this mess.
My mom had that couch flown in from Portugal.
Exactly the same as what she could have bought at La Samaritaine except that it was once graced by the bottoms of a royal family.
I don't know if this will help, but I used to use that computer whenever I was at home; the last time was just before my mother was killed.
The login is "nicolette"; the password is "chad".
834 Subject: Silhouette Business Nicolette, Your aid in securing support for Silhouette has been invaluable -- you've done much to help sustain the cause of freedom in the face of ever more open repression by our own government.
However, I'm afraid that I must ask for your help yet again.
The police have begun to raid the Catacombs, and if we are to put up an effective resistance then we must locate additional resources by whatever means necessary.
I know your mother and her friends wish to remain anonymous, but any funds or material that they can contribute will be of enormous help.
And even if they cannot, their continued goo-will is still of great importance to us all.
Thank you, and I hope to see you again soon.
834 Subject: RE: Your Help >they need help or they'll be slaughtered by the >porcs who strut about the streets like they own >them.
You've helped us once before, and it has >meant so much to the cause.
Please, mother, >I'm asking you to help us again.
You know so >many who can I will do what I can, dear, but the situation is far more complicated than I think you may be aware of -- my connections within the Hague and the United Nations indicate that the problem is not limited to France, and many parties are using the "Gray Death" epidemic as an excuse to exercise their control over other national governments.
I have to consult with Morgan.
We must be careful where we choose to allocate our resources.
It is a very dangerous time -- for everyone, Nicolette -- and your flirtation with this organization could have serious consequences.
I am asking you again to be careful.
I could not stand it if something happened to you.
In the meanwhile, I will do what I can.
Beth ICARUS You will find no one to help you here.
Beth DuClare has been dissected and placed in cryonic storage.
Look for clues in Beth's room.
I bet she had a quick way to get to the cellar.
ICARUS What are you looking for?
NICOLETTE I think my mother kept a room key behind a little vase up here.
My mom's room -- and, look, her favorite painting!
I can't believe the assassins didn't take it.
Oh, the hours she would spend just sitting at that table and staring up at her priceless treasure.
My little prison for eighteen years.
I wanted to be in the city, but I guess Mom thought it was easier to keep her activities secret in the country.
BOOK Richard III by William Shakespeare Act I, Scene IV CLARENCE: .
Lord, Lord!
methought, what pain it was to drown!
What dreadful noise of waters in mine ears!
What ugly sights of death within my eyes!
Methought I saw a thousand fearful wrecks; Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon; Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl, Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels, All scatter'd in the bottom of the sea: Some lay in dead men's skulls; and, in those holes Where eyes did once inhabit, there were crept, As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems, Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep, And mock'd the dead bones that lay scatter'd by.
DATACUBE Dear Nicolette, if you examine my suspension vault you'll find an item that I had to pay quite dearly to acquire; the vault code is 1784.
I don't know what use it may be, but many people are quite prepared to kill for it.
I originally obtained it for Morgan and if you find yourself in trouble, he may still be willing to bargain for it.
He is a calculating man, not without compassion but still dangerous.
Be careful, my daughter.
Beth BOOK Jacob's Shadow by Andrew Hammond Chapter 27 It was late when he got back.
Everything black and quiet.
Jacob killed the lights but didn't take the key out of this ignition.
He reached into his pocket and took out a little box with an LCD display, thumbed a button and the radio transceiver captured the last few hours left of motion sensor logs from the building.
He'd done some favors for friends in the Shop -- or whatever it was they were calling it this week -- and they'd installed it to spec for him.
As he walked to the door he was still arranging all the pieces in his head.
Sure way to get his ass taken down, but he couldn't help it.
Something was missing.
Didn't fit.
Allie hunched over in the bathroom, that needle dangling from between her toes.
Katsuya shifting a half million yen before the currency market closed.
The radio station Samuel had turned him on to, the one with the little girl repeating all those numbers in sequence.
And somewhere in the middle.
Jacob stepped, looked up at the night sky.
He'd been assuming that there were two sides to this game and both were playing to win.
But what if.
what if there was someone else, and they wanted to see both sides lose?
DATACUBE Dear Nicolette, at some point it may become necessary for you to access my private records, and perhaps to.
to do what you think best, given the circumstances of my absence.
You must understand how much I care for you, and if I've not always done what might be considered right, I have always done what I thought best for you and the others I've cared about; it is a cold heart that does not have some regrets.
Login: bduclare Password: nico_angel This is all I can leave to you; everything else I have already given.
I love you my daughter, and I trust you will make me proud.
I am only sorry that I am not here to see it.
Beth NEWSPAPER EXCLUSIVE: BOB PAGE INTERVIEW Affaires le France AF: .
And now France?
BP: Yes, France.
France -- and Europe -- have prospered for thousands of years.
it would be foolish to ignore the economic and cultural opportunities that exist here.
This country has a huge reserve of talent, in all sectors of the work force, and Page Industries is looking forward to recruiting the best and the brightest.
AF: But what about the turmoil that seems to be afflicting much of the continent, the rise of radical splinter groups such as SCHUSE and Silhouette?
BP: Intimidation through violence is the last resort of the weak.
these groups are composed of nothing but frustrated, gullible individuals.
We have a very effective security organization that will be working with both local and national authorities to minimize whatever potential for actual harm they present.
AF: So you see yourself working closely with the government?
BP: Very closely.
NICOLETTE The maid did all of the cooking, but Mom always picked out the wine.
She was the only one with a key to the cellar.
Funny.
You know, when I was a little girl, I used to play in the dumbwaiter that goes up to Mom’s room.
Amazing I didn’t break my neck.
An old bunker, built during World War II by the previous owner to hide Jewish families.
The DuClares acquired the property after the Nazis sent him to a camp in Germany.
Strange.
I'm picking up heavy-duty fiber-optic activity down here.
NICOLETTE What's this?
A dungeon?
My mother would not have worked in this filth.
There must be another room.
Petabytes of transmissions.
Beth DuClare probably used it to analyze Net traffic.
NICOLETTE Oh my God.
I had no idea.


2 Subject: Final Message CYPHERBLOCK= This will be our last communication over the Net.
The so-called "Aquinas" protocols that my old protégé and MJ12 have implemented are crude, but effective -- much like my protégé.
All future meetings will need to occur face to face at a secure location.
Each code and key pair can be used once and then it will be permanently erased.
Each code will be tagged to one of our previously agreed upon meeting locations and times.
If one or the other of us should need to get in touch, send a message using one of the codes -- the content of the message is irrelevant, only the code used to encrypt it.
I shouldn't need to point out that any attempt to tamper with the chip once it has been installed will result in it being rendered useless.
Best of luck -- to you and to us all, Morgan EVERETT So you found Beth's computer.
We are destined to meet, perhaps.
If you are truly our ally, you will help me access the MJ12 computer network and complete the Gray Death vaccine.
Find Nicolette; you will need her key in order to exit through the crypt.
I will be directing you to a nearby cathedral.
NICOLETTE What is it?
He wants me to go out the back way, through the crypt, to a nearby cathedral.
NICOLETTE The cathedral of the Knights Templar?
I'm supposed to access the Majestic 12 computer network.
NICOLETTE Yes, Majestic 12 controls the place now.
They killed the Knights for their gold reserves.
Everett must want you to sneak to that part of town through the sewers that connect to our property.
NICOLETTE They invented the modern banking system and were its directors, under one name or another, until Majestic 12 took over.
NICOLETTE Yes.
Here it is.
The crypt is in the maze behind the chateau.
Listen to Everett.
He is right to want to avenge the Templars.
The Templars inherited the gold of the original French treasury, which was run by a Templar until the order was suppressed.
Just before the crackdown in 1307, the gold was secretly moved to a cathedral, where it has remained ever since.
The Nazis plundered a third of it during World War II, but most of the gold remains.
Let's keep moving.
I'll go with you as far as the maze.
MJ12 could be loading the gold onto a plane right now.
Funny.
You know, when I was a girl, I used to play in the dumbwaiter that goes up to Mom's room.
Amazing I didn't break my neck.
EVERETT Exit the DuClare estate through the crypt at the end of the maze.
The system I need you to access is inside a cathedral that belonged to the Knights Templar until MJ12 slaughtered the Knights for their gold reserves.
NICOLETTE I'm going to stay to go through some of my mother's things.
Good luck.
Everett will be a powerful ally, but you can be certain that he will have his own agenda.
JOCK Look out, JC.
I'm picking up heat signatures in the sewers.
I think somebody's expecting you.
This sewer connects to a street near the cathedral -- not too far from here.
PARIS - KNIGHTS TEMPLAR CATHEDRAL EVERETT You're going the right way.
I primarily need you to establish an uplink from the MJ12 network, but I also have uses for that gold.
When you locate it, I will send someone to recover it.
Prepare to receive a map of the cathedral.
NEWSPAPER UNITED STATES INSTITUTES MARTIAL LAW APR - New York In a momentous speech held at 2:30PM EST today, President Mead announced the declaration of martial law throughout the United States, citing a "fundamental threat to the American way of life in the form of organized, insidious terrorism.
" With major American cities already reeling under the impact of the "Gray Death," looting and rioting have reached disastrous levels, while terrorist attacks have grown increasingly ubiquitous, climaxing in the attack on UNATCO headquarters in New York last week.
Local authorities have so far proven ineffectual in stemming the tide of violence, and even Washington, D.
C.
, has been hit by an outbreak of the Gray Death.
Highly placed sources have speculated that Mead himself may be infected.
President Mead appointed Walton Simons, Director of FEMA, to spearhead an interim council tasked with managing the government response.
"We will do everything -- everything -- that is in our power to restore the peace and security of the average American," said Simons.
"In no way will this violate the civil liberties that have made this country great -- instead, we pledge to do everything in our power to safeguard those liberties against all who would see them torn apart.
" BULLETINS Local Sights: Cathedrale de Payens Though overshadowed by several larger and more well-known cathedrals, the Cathedrale de Payens in the 14th arrondissement remains a historical curiosity of interest to many scholars.
Construction was begun in 1218 and completed before the end of the century, financed by the Templar Knights -- an order of warrior monks -- as part of a similar network of churches, cathedrals, and forts (or "commanderies" as they were called) throughout Britain, Europe, and the Holy Lands.
Some scholars believe that the order did not disappear in 1311 with its dissolution, however, and that the Templar Knights continued to operate more or less in secret -- but whatever the truth, Payens fell into disrepair until finally purchased and renovated by a group of European investors in 1918 as a corporate retreat.
While closed to the public, it still remains a comforting presence at the heart of the arrondissement.
DAEDALUS Keep going past the metro station.
The cathedral is to the south.
Transmitting a photograph.
PARIS - METRO STATION MORGAN EVERETT The metro will take you out of the way.
Go back to the street.
The cathedral is not much further.
PARIS - KNIGHTS TEMPLAR CATHEDRAL EVERETT MJ12 has the cathedral locked down.
If you can't get through one of the doors, you will have to find another way.
I'm not sure where the computer system is located.
A trellis.
You could climb onto the roof and avoid the security.
Never depend upon weapons and high-tech when there is a simpler solution at hand.
BOOK .
don't know how I pulled this assignment.
I was told that this was a "private security organization," but I should've known something was going on when they didn't ask about the damned discharge.
Stupid.
Now I'm walking the line at some gloomy ass church in the middle of Paris, nothing for company but a bunch of brain-dead zombies dressed in black and that crazy cook -- keeps rattling on about temples or templars and how he used to cook for the rich or something.
I don't know.
Food isn't all that great.
Can't even get a bottle of ketchup.
And then this German mech-aug shows up yesterday.
I knew a lot of stone-cold people in the service, and this guy looks like he's got murder on his mind.
He stands down there in the tech archive like a bot -- I was on patrol in the cellar for 10 hours and he didn't move once.
Inhuman.
It's like he's waiting for something.
I think I heard him crying once.
BOOK The Doctrine of the Mighty by The Majestic Council of the Twelve It is a commonly held precept that two are stronger than one, and that four are stronger than two, and that sixteen are by far stronger than four; with this, there can be no argument.
If all of human history is but a single lesson, it is that the individual may be remembered, but the organization persists and thrives.
A single artist, a single general, a single hero or a single villain may all die, but it is impossible to kill a people, a nation, an idea -- except when that idea has grown weak and is overpowered by one that is stronger.
This then is the true calling of those who would be mighty and join They Who Rule the World in Majesty, to shun all that is empty fame and glory; to eliminate weak thoughts, weak hands, and weak ideas; to give up vain individuality and instead become a part of something that is glorious and strong.
This is the First Secret, that by surrendering that part of you that is the least, you are elevated to the Most.
The First Secret shall set you free, and those who know their duty will find in it the keys to immortality.
The Second Secret can be explained to all, but truly understood only by those who have submitted to the first Body and Soul.
DATACUBE Adept 34501, Order of the Night Sky, Third Rank: Those Who Rule in Majesty, the Twelve, have set you to watch over this place and record all that may happen so we may benefit from your observations, as you may benefit from our wisdom.
You are entrusted with a Key to Sidon's Vault: 1942 You are entrusted with a Key to the Fountain of Wisdom: 0022 You are entrusted with a Number and a Secret: 34501, 08711 You will guard all these things with Life and Soul, and do your duty so that the Fourth Secret may find a place in your Heart.
XII GUNTHER HERMANN I see you, a thief on the roof.
My new satellite link has both infrared and the x-ray spectrum.
I see your heart beating.
I see you are afraid.
ICARUS Do not give Everett access to your systems.
His only objective is power.
You are being manipulated.
MORGAN EVERETT Ah.
A good library, worth its weight in gold.
BOOK The Red Cross: A History of the Knights Templar by Richard Baigent Volume One: Defenders of the Faith .
Upon the deliverance of Jerusalem, the Holy Lands remained in a precarious state, surrounded on all sides by hostile Mohammedan neighbors.
It was then that Hugues de Payens, a knight from Champagne, bound himself and eight fellow knights in a vow to forever protect the "Kingdom of Christendom.
" Accepted in 1118 by Baldwin II, the Patriarch of Jerusalem, they were given charitable lodgings in the city temple where they became the "pauvres chevaliers du temple," or the "poor knights of the temple.
" It was not until later at the Council of Troyes that the Templar Knights adopted the austere, monastic Rule of St.
Benedict, along with the white garments of the Cistercians -- adding to them the characteristic red cross that symbolized their willingness to spill their own blood in the defense of the One True Faith.
The Templars quickly became a popular order, renowned as "lions at war and lambs at the hearth.
" They were soon exempted by the popes from all secular and episcopal authority save that of the popes themselves, and their lands exempted from all taxation.
BOOK The Red Cross: A History of the Knights Templar by Richard Baigent Volume Two: Lions of God .
and every sovereign of Europe made donations to the order, be it land, money, arms, or men.
They triumphed in battle after battle, the first to attack and the last to retreat, "rough knights of the battlefield" as described by Jacques de Virty; if taken prisoner they refused all efforts to secure their freedom, instead becoming martyrs to the cause of God.
With every success, the order prospered even further -- at their height they were said to have owned over 9000 estates throughout Britain, France, Italy, and the Holy Lands, including a network of castles and commanderies built to protect the frequent pilgrims to Jerusalem.
In all but name, the Templars virtually ruled Jerusalem and -- in what can only be termed hubris -- recognized no temporal authority over their affairs save that of the Church.
By 1250 the coffers of the order had grown so large that it was not uncommon for pilgrims to deposit their money with a temple in London or Paris, and then cash in their receipt upon arriving in Jerusalem, thus establishing the foundations for modern banking and checking accounts.
BOOK The Red Cross: A History of the Knights Templar by Richard Baigent Volume Three: Fall of the Knights .
while many charges can be disputed, it is clear that the more the Knights prospered, the less they became the austere monastic order that had originally been envisioned by de Payens a century before.
Eventually even excommunicated men and criminals were accepted -- as long as they pledged blind obedience to the order.
Rumors of secret initiation rituals and the "osculum infame" ("infame kiss") flourished, as did stories that they worshipped Baphoment and other false pagan gods.
But it was their rivalry with the Order of the Hospitalers and their continued arrogance that were most responsible for their downfall.
When Jerusalem was finally lost to the mighty forces of Saladin, Philip the Fair saw an opportunity to bring the Templars to heel.
and greatly expand his own holdings.
With the cooperation of the French pope Clement V, Philip accused the Templars of heresy and in 1304 placed all members of the order in France under arrest, subsequently subjecting them to brutal interrogations in an effort to determine whether the rather fanciful charges of sodomy, apostasy, and devil worship were true.
BOOK The Red Cross: A History of the Knights Templar by Richard Baigent Volume Four: Descent Into Shadows .
but despite Clement's later efforts to annul the proceedings, the confessions had become matters of record.
Those who repented were spared the flames, while fifty knights who chose to recant their confessions -- becoming "relapsi," relapsed heretics -- were promptly burned at the stake.
The remaining members of the order in France quickly admitted their guilt, and in 1311 an Apostolic Decree was issued dissolving the order.
The Templar Knights had once been subject to no king or law; but in the end, they were swallowed by history.
Many have debated whether the rather ignominibus dissolution of the order was entirely accidental, while some have even gone so far as to suggest that it was part of a larger plan on the Templar's part.
Such a massive, powerful organization -- the argument goes -- could not have been brought so low, so easily.
Obscure speculation concerning a mysterious hay wain that departed their commandery in Paris has led certain researchers to believe that they may have been protecting the secret of the Holy Grail, or the secret of transmutation, but still others contend that the Templar Knights merely went underground and founded the powerful, secretive banking societies of Switzerland.
BOOK MJ12 Compromised Individuals List Paris, France The following individuals have been rated as having 85% or higher likelihood of being engaged in suspicious or ideologically counterproductive activity on the Chasen-Bikal scale, and/or have scored at least 4.
31 on the JKL-LB survey over the preceding six months.
Agents are encouraged to pursue soft campaigns of calculated defamation, resulting in reduced meme propagation effectiveness, prior to prejudicial termination.
Termination, when necessary, should be staged to implicate organizations currently on the MJ12-COL.
Please refer any questions to MJ12 Simulations and Strategy, MJ12SAS//UpNet.
BOOK Testament of Adept 34501 My name has been taken from me, a thing I need not anymore, and I have been christened Adept 34501.
They have set me to keep a record of this place, to record a history of its comings and goings so that Those Who Rule might have the benefit of its knowledge.

today saw the arrival of Agent Hermann.
He is a simple thing, fitted to a dark purpose by forces he cannot understand.
In a way, I feel pity for him -- an emotion that I know will prevent my advancement beyond the Third Rank -- but it is pity I feel nonetheless.
He has spent most of his time below in the technology archive, staring at the ancient cross above his head.
He burns with a hatred that I can feel, for himself and for someone else.
Periodically he will receive holographic communications from Simons, after which his hatred burns all the brighter.
I think it has burned away everything human in him, and only the metal holds him together anymore.
Adept 34501, Order of the Night Sky, Third Rank EVERETT The gold -- wonderful!
My people will take control when you move out.
I believe you know Chad.
I've given him control of an NSF platoon on loan to me from America.
This hoard dates back to when the Templar's mangled the French treasury for Philip the Fair.
They moved it here from the Temple in Paris after the crackdown of 1307.
The Nazis boxed it up for shipment to Berlin but had to abandon the cathedral during the evacuation.
GUNTHER HERMANN You are a small, prowling mouse.
And dumb like a mouse.
You keep coming, like you forget about Agent Navarre.
I remember Agent Navarre.
I remember for everyone.
MORGAN EVERETT I once knelt in this chapel for communion, with two Rockefellers and a Rotschild.
Since the time of the Crusades every leader in finance has prayed for the continued stability of Templar banks, founded on gold.
SWELTER What do you want?
SWELTER You are in the wrong place!
If I am to prepare breakfast for dozens of soldiers, then I must be left alone!
You part of the original staff?
SWELTER I have been the chef here for eight years -- yes!
The Templars were civilized.
They paid me, and they let me leave the compound.
Maybe you can help me out.
SWELTER Fine.
These soldiers deserve to lose everything they have taken.
Go up the three flights of stairs just outside the kitchen, turn left, go down two flights, then look for the door with a keypad on the left.
Sorry -- I do not know the code.
SWELTER I have helped you enough.
I do not need a bullet in the head.
Now go!
They will kill me if I talk to anyone.
This is my life.
A chef in the basement of a kennel.
I am not allowed to leave.
If they want a hamburger, why not go to an American hamburger franchise?
The Templars were bankers and la noblesse.
That is my proper element.
The recipes the soldiers request require less than five percent of my intellectual capacity.
Please -- go about your business.
MJ12 TROOP 1 Ahhhh.
I need to rest my feet.
MJ12 TROOP 2 You should go back to the barracks.
MJ12 TROOP 1 What are they thinking?
Eight straight hours of walking around a vacant cathedral?
What's the point of that?
MJ12 TROOP 2 They think he contacted Everett.
He'll probably target the computer room.
MJ12 TROOP 1 We should just smash that thing to pieces and all get a good night's sleep.
MJ12 TROOP 2 Then there's the gold.
The Illuminati are the only other organization that knows it exists.
MJ12 TROOP 1 Yeah, like they could move forty tons of gold out of here withour being seen.
Right.
MJ12 TROOP 2 All the same.
We don't know what they have planned.
GUNTHER HERMANN Yes.
Obey your new masters.
Come to me.
GUNTHER HERMANN Now you see that you cannot succeed all alone against the whole world.
GUNTHER HERMANN It is a simple message I am demonstrating.
We know where you are going and what you intend.
GUNTHER HERMANN You know you will be defeated.
How 'bout we make a gentlemen's agreement?
GUNTHER HERMANN I am the top agent at UNATCO.
It is different now.
Mr.
Simons said if I defeat you I can have any upgrades I want.
THAT is a gentlemen's agreement.
GUNTHER HERMANN I have been upgraded for this assignment.
We almost have a cure.
Even if Everett succeeds, you can't synthesize enough vaccine to stop an epidemic.
You need a Universal Constructor!
And don't think Page Industries is going to leave one lying around for you to use, not after you blew up the one in Hong Kong.
Next time we won't use an old box of bolts like Gunther.
The only reason I let him go to Paris is that I was sick of his moaning about Navarre and constant requests for a tuneup.
Next time you will face someone of your own abilities.
EVERETT I'm getting what I need.
Good work.
I will now consent to meet you in person.
Go to the metro station nearby and await my instructions.
SWELTER What do you want?
SWELTER Just go up the steps and out the door.
Now leave me alone.
I am busy.
They will kill me if I talk to anyone.
This is my life.
A chef in the basement of a kennel.
I am not allowed to leave.
If they want a hamburger, why not go to an American hamburger franchise?
The Templars were bankers and la noblesse.
That is my proper element.
The recipes the soldiers request require less than five percent of my intellectual capacity.
Please -- go about your business.
ICARUS You bring the Illuminati closer to regaining power.
Examine what you are doing.
EVERETT You're hearing the voice of a Majestic 12 AI.
No need to be alarmed -- for now.
I can protect you and Daedalus for a day or so.
ICARUS Your systems were very cooperative.
Upload complete.
BOB PAGE You were just a prototype, Denton, a prototype for me.
PARIS - METRO STATION EVERETT Keep going.
Atanwe is in the tube below.
PATROL You travel at your own risk tonight, monsieur.
Bonjour.
You must take responsibility for your own travel decisions and for understanding the relevant laws and regulations.
It's not my job to memorize the train schedule.
Please be advised to stay home until morning.
We have had trouble with impatient passengers who walk into the tunnels and get themselves electrocuted.
Travel advisories are in effect.
BOOK Notebook of Giuliano Jordorowsky .
This job is so boring.
I do nothing but write in my notebook, fill it with my thoughts, but sometimes I must amuse myself.
I have been stealing from the security.
like thick-skulled dogs, they are.
Last week I took a watch, but they paid no notice.
I am nothing to them.
Just the strange man with his notebook.
I was listening to the night guard, Jobal.
A disgusting creature, and a creature of habit.
I heard him on the phone -- talking to that cow of a girlfriend -- and he told her his bank account number.
I almost got his PIN as well, but a passing train drowned him out.
I do not know the last number.
I will try again when he is on shift next week.
Account: 576001 PIN: wyrdred0- He will be surprised when all his money is gone, and they will not suspect me.
JOSEPH Oh-ho!
I see now.
Your friend is waiting by the tracks.
JOSEPH More gangsters every day.
You have weapons?
I am selling weapon modifications.
750 for accuracy; 800 for range.
Also, I was lucky to find thermoptic camo.
So.
you've been stealing from the security.
JOSEPH Hey, you were reading my private memoirs!
Maybe you should give me a discount, or should I turn you in?
JOSEPH Go ahead.
I don't care.
Who are they going to believe -- their own mechanic or a suspicious foreigner?
Ha!
You will pay full price.
PATROL Make sure your travel documents are in order.
Only a couple trains are running.
PATROL Jordorowsky.
We know.
But we have other things to worry about.
It would be easy to arrest him.
PATROL We are in the middle of a terrorism emergency.
We don't have time to chase petty thieves.
The terrorism alert is still active.
JOSEPH What do you want to buy?
Maybe you should've given me that discount.
JOSEPH You told them?
Maybe I can help you get out of here -- if you'll part with some of that hardware.
JOSEPH I will not go to jail!
No!
Never!
Get out of the way!
I had to do it!
I needed the money!
Let's see the hardware.
JOSEPH Yes, you will pay full price!
JOSEPH Here it is.
What do you want to buy?
JOSEPH Here it is.
What do you want to buy?
JOSEPH Ho-ho-ho.
A BIG-time gangster.
JOSEPH I wish I had more, but I don't want them to be suspicious.
I will not hold my breath waiting for the next train.
I have not seen a train in two hours.
At least I am left with an easy job.
Now, like the Director, I get paid to sit on my ass.
Come back here every night, and we will do business.
ATANWE JC Denton.
I will take you to Everett, but you will be forbidden to learn the way yourself.
ATANWE You will not be harmed in any way.
ATANWE Step a little closer.
I will find Everett on my own.
ATANWE I'm afraid that would be impossible.
PARIS - MORGAN EVERETT'S HOME ATANWE See - the neuro-paralytic gas causes no inconvenience whatsoever.
ATANWE We all are.
The Illuminati is getting a taste of its own medicine.
ATANWE Your uplink provided the missing encryption key.
ATANWE He's downstairs in the lab.
It would be rather serendipitous if Bob Page invented something Everett could not figure out.
We have never failed to decypher Majestic 12's plans.
Stopping it, however, has been another matter.
Everett thinks you can help us.
I hope he is right.
You will be heading back to America, if I understand correctly.
Your President Mead survived the coup attempt, but he won't survive a national epidemic of the plague.
Page is manufacturing the virus again, while Simons readies the paperwork to declare a national emergency.
The logical response is for us simply to cure the plague.
Everett has a vaccine, but we need a way to manufacture it.
He has a plan, but he has kept the details to himself.
You better talk with Everett.
Time is short.
CARMELA You missed dinner, but help yourself to a snack.
Do not to disturb Lucius DeBeers.
CARMELA Oh.
You do not know him?
CARMELA It is not for me to discuss Mr.
DeBeers.
Is there something to hide?
CARMELA He is a friend of Mr.
Everett's and very sick.
You must not disturb him or inquire about him.
I am not permitted to discuss Mr.
DeBeers.
Just cleaning up.
Don't let Mr.
Everett catch you snooping around.
Mr.
Everett is in the laboratory.
You are keeping Mr.
Everett waiting.
ICARUS The Illuminati's objective is to govern the world.
Do not be deceived.
DATACUBE Beth, feel free to visit with Morpheus while I am away: the code is 8001.
I'm sure you will have many interesting things to discuss.
and pay no attention to Lucius, he complains at the slightest provocation.
Everett LUCIUS What are you doing back here?
Denton, right?
yeah.
You're.
alive in that thing?
LUCIUS I am conscious.
Tell Everett I am cold.
He keeps me so cold.
Do you mind if I ask?
LUCIUS The Supreme Enlightened, the leader of the Illuminati.
LUCIUS I AM THE LEADER!
I brought the Illuminati up through the 20th-century to the height of their power!
I had presidents and premiers eating out of my hand.
I am the one!
Our decline is the result of my own.
All we need is for me to get back on my feet.
What did Everett tell you?
LUCIUS I merely await certain technologies, then I will be restored.
Everett has sworn it!
He promised me.
I'm so cold.
Tell Everett I'm cold.
He needs me.
The Illuminati would have ruled the planet, if only he had listened to me, years ago.
I was the one who warned him about Page.
Everett was too enamored with his young apprentice Bob Page to listen to an old man like me.
I demand that he check my thermostat.
The maid must have bumped it.
I am certain!
We should have poisoned Page the first time he forged laboratory data.
We don't equivocate about outsiders, do we?
Mr.
Kennedy mentions a "plot" during a speech at Columbia University, he's out, no discussion, no matter that we got him elected.
But a student of ours, an initiate -- oh, heavens, no!
The Kennedys, the Chinese, now Bob Page.
Don't you get away from us, young Denton.
We can't afford to lose you.
I feel so numb.
Get Everett down here.
Hurry.
He ignores my transmissions.
I am too tired now.
Go away.
Ahhhggg!
EVERETT What the hell are you doing down there?
You just killed Lucius DeBeers, an old friend of mine.
I know.
He wasn't doing very well, and he was in pain.
Still, I had my reasons for keeping him alive.
For God's sake, he was the former leader of the Illuminati!
Stop messing with my equipment and get to the laboratory!
EVERETT What did I tell you?
That was my former colleague, my friend.
I know.
He wasn't doing well, and he was in pain.
but I wanted to keep him alive.
Stop messing with my equipment and get to the helicopter!
ALEX Good news, huh?
Looks like we might pull this thing off.
What are you doing here?
He wanted me to help with the decryption.
ALEX Listen quickly.
He sent me here to keep an eye on Everett.
How about the Triads?
Is the truce going to hold?
ALEX Last I heard.
But I guess we have other things to worry about now, huh?
I'll keep you in touch through your infolink, and I'll try my best to keep you informed.
Do exactly that.
Keep me informed.
He had to leave Hong Kong.
The Triads?
ALEX He said he had some business to take care of.
I don't know; he didn't look so good.
ALEX Either that, or something was bothering him.
The last thing he said to me -- it was something about all the machines in his lab being useless.
And then he cut off the connection.
ALEX It was just an outburst.
I don't know, but he wants me to wait here for instructions.
He wants you to be careful.
While you're in the air, I guess I'll be helping Everett prepare Daedalus for the attack.
I hope he knows what he's doing.
The Echelon kernel was designed almost exclusively for collecting data, so we have to add functionality for memory wipes, thread termination, that kind of thing.
It's not often you get to construct a software worm that might do some good for the world.
Good luck at Vandenberg.
Some of the best scientists in the world have joined up with Savage.
I'll keep you updated on the situation here.
If you need to access the security system, this week's code is "pynchon".
We should be especially wary now with this recent turn of events; I imagine Bobby is feeling the first signs of apprehension, and he tends to overreact when that happens.
And if Lucius continues to complain, you may access his life support with the same password at the central computer.
Please don't raise his temperature more than a degree as I don't want him thawing out.
1 Subject: Suspension Codes I've placed the nano-organic material that we received today in suspension until you have an opportunity to perform an analysis: the codes are 2384 and 6426.
Please let me know if you have any questions.
This is a problem with n-variable systems: at arbitrary levels of sophistication, minute perturbations become unquantifiable.
Is personality nothing more than the tidal change in a non- linear system?
And if so, what is the 'moon,' what force shapes these tides?
Morpheus could tell me, if only Morpheus could model its own behavior -- but this would require a system orders of magnitude more complex to execute a simulation of its own identity.
I may resort to a full battery of input analysis tests to be compared against previous baseline tests, but I find myself strangely reluctant to do so.
At this level of development, Morpheus could be cognizant enough to find the experience.
unpleasant.
I do not know why that word occurs to me, as it anthropomorphizes what is obviously not human.
but what may not so obviously be alive.
-- Morgan Everett MORPHEUS JC Denton.
23 years old.
No residence.
No ancestors.
No employer.
MORPHEUS I must greet each visitor with a complete summary of his file.
I am a prototype for a much larger system.
MORPHEUS Everything that can be known.
Do you have proof about my ancestors?
MORPHEUS You are a planned organism, the offspring of knowledge and imagination rather than of individuals.
So what?
My brother and I suspected as much while we were growing up.
MORPHEUS You are carefully watched by many people.
The unplanned organism is a question asked by Nature and answered by death.
You are another kind of question with another kind of answer.
MORPHEUS I am a prototype for a much larger system.
The heuristics language developed by Dr.
Everett allows me to convey the highest and most succinct tier of any pyramidal construct of knowledge.
MORPHEUS I was a prototype for Echelon IV.
My instructions are to amuse visitors with information about themselves.
MORPHEUS Human beings feel pleasure when they are watched.
I have recorded their smiles as I tell them who they are.
MORPHEUS The need to be observed and understood was once satisfied by God.
Now we can implement the same functionality with data-mining algorithms.
Perhaps fear and obedience, but not reverence.
MORPHEUS God and the gods were apparitions of observation, judgment, and punishment.
Other sentiments toward them were secondary.
MORPHEUS The human organism always worships.
First it was the gods, then it was fame (the observation and judgment of others), next it will be the self-aware systems you have built to realize truly omnipresent observation and judgment.
MORPHEUS The individual desires judgment.
Without that desire, the cohesion of groups is impossible, and so is civilization.
The human being created civilization not because of a willingness but because of a need to be assimilated into higher orders of structure and meaning.
God was a dream of good government.
You will soon have your God, and you will make it with your own hands.
I was made to assist you.
I am a prototype of a much larger system.
EVERETT The conspiracy is about to begin again, JC, between you and me.
Nicolette was to bring us together, wise like her mother.
The most effective partnerships -- like Beth's and mine -- arise from mutual necessity.
Atanwe says you cracked the virus.
EVERETT A trivial matter.
Page added nothing to the core design.
However, what we need to construct is a carbanocarbon ROM module -- not exactly a vaccine.
EVERETT No, we need time on a UC.
But I know where we might find one and also gain access to the U.
S.
military networks.
S.
military.

Daedalus is a design of mine; it replaced the old Echelon III network.
the surveillance system for the United Nations -- so Daedalus was an MJ12 tool and rebelled?
EVERETT More of a pattern-matching error.
It classified Majestic 12 as a terrorist group, alongside the NSF and Silhouette.
Are you sure Daedalus is your ally?
EVERETT What matters to us is that it opposes Majestic 12.
We must help it destroy their intelligence apparatus -- but that will require the military networks.
I have already contacted Gary Savage of X-51.
Are they still camped out at Vandenberg Air Force Base?
EVERETT They are close to completing a UC and have the kind of connection Daedalus will need.
EVERETT Yes.
I took the liberty of radioing him.
Here is a key to the helipad stairway.
The door is in the foyer, where Atanwe revived you.
Good luck.
I will be in contact.
EVERETT I know.
Eighteen degrees Celsius, to be exact.
EVERETT I keep his metabolism low so he will last.
He is a good adviser, a one-man think-tank, so to speak.
EVERETT A harmless fantasy.
He also thinks I'm going to restore his body.
EVERETT The technology has been around for decades, but he does not need to know that.
Don't forget to say hi to your friend from UNATCO.
Mr.
uh.
Jacobson.
EVERETT (In the side office.
My own computer technician.
I suppose he can help me prepare a comlink for Daedalus.
The one with the blue face for an interface.
EVERETT Oh, nothing, nothing.
Just something for passing the time and amusing guests.
EVERETT An old prototype -- for Daedalus, actually.
It doesn't really handle surveillance in its current state.
EVERETT Mr.
Denton, your pilot is waiting.
You saw a piece of Echelon III in Beth's chateau.
We salvaged some of the hardware.
Surveillance used to be daemon-based.
Daedalus is more distributed; a blip of his code runs on every communication device on the planet.
If we control communications, we can organize and the other side cannot.
Lack of organization is exactly what has plagued X-51.
They're great scientists, but isolated.
They left Area 51 to protest Majestic 12's experiments, and that's what it amounted to: a protest.
They don't even coordinate with the NSF, which is headquartered a few hundred miles to the north.
You see the need for global organization.
Someone has to bring these disparate groups together.
X-51 has assembled excellent technology; they just need someone to help them use it.
You will be my representative at Vandenberg.
I will trust you to find a way to manufacture the cure.
Meanwhile, I have other preparations to make.
JOCK Just got refueled.
been waiting for you.
MECHANIC Uh.
Is there a problem?
MECHANIC I -- I checked her out.
She's fueled up and ready to go.
MECHANIC Huh?
No -- I said I checked her out.
You want the thing to run, right?
If you're gonna cross the ocean.
Better safe than sorry.
MECHANIC I fixed her up for ya.
Something wrong?
I think your friend's ready to go.
I got a pretty cush job, huh?
Something about him seemed a little off.
EVERETT Yes -- Pierre.
I haven't been able to reach him.
What's wrong?
He sounded American to me.
EVERETT Pierre has never been to America.
Who's up there?
He's not one of my people.
The helipad is secure.
EVERETT Well, thank you.
A small consolation.
I would like to know how he got in here in the first place.
EVERETT You better get back to the helipad on the double.
That man must be eliminated.
One spy could wreck everything we're working for.
Who sent you?
MECHANIC I -- I don't know what you mean.
Pierre.
MECHANIC It wasn't me.
He was dead when I got here.
One.
Two.
MECHANIC No one, man!
No one!
I didn't do it!
Leave me alone!
Aaaa!
LUCIUS Where is he?
I will remember these small injusticies!
When I am revived.
I will remember!
LUCIUS He must!
He has been commanded!
LUCIUS No!
No!
I will not allow it!
If only I had command of my body.
Now even Everett betrays the Illuminati.
Can no one be trusted?
Young Denton, use the computer to my left.
Find a way to shut me down.
All I wanted was to touch the world one more time, take one more breath of air.
I will not be a prisoner!
I command you!
Kill me!
I COMMAND YOU!
LUCIUS It's so cold.
Oh, it's so cold.
JOCK I talked to Savage.
Sounds like Vandenberg may be in some trouble.
Get in.
JOCK Don't take all night.
Ready?
JOCK Why'd you kill Everett's mechanic?
You better double-check your systems.
What did he work on?
JOCK I talked to Savage.
Sounds like Vandenberg may be in some trouble.
Get in.
That mechanic was an imposter.
JOCK Yeah?
What did he work on?
JOCK The fuel system.
Hmmm.
Now that you mention it.
Wait a minute.
This isn't right.
JOCK Oh my God!
JC!
A bomb!
JOCK It's remote controlled.
Hold on.
JOCK Just have to pull this wire.
There.
Relax.
I disabled the detonator.
We can drop the thing in the Atlantic on the way back to the 'States.
You make a good detective, JC.
Ready to get out of here?
JOCK Don't take all night.
Ready?
VANDENBERG - COMMAND CARLA BROWN The snipers heard your helicopter and took off.
You guys saved my life.
Why's Majestic 12 attacking?
CARLA BROWN You with the NSF?
CARLA BROWN MJ12 is short a UC.
They lost the one in Hong Kong, and now something has happened at the Pasadena Ocean Lab.
CARLA BROWN The base is locked down until we can destroy the enemy bots.
Unfortunately, MJ12 disabled our own bot defense system, and no one has been able to activate the backup power.
Where are the controls?
CARLA BROWN There are two separate units at the west end of the base.
It won't be easy.
MJ12 has hacked the security grid and taken control of nearly all of our defenses: turrets, cameras, alarms.
and they have snipers everywhere!
CARLA BROWN I suppose you're right.
I can give you a map.
One of the units is in the main complex; the other one is in an exposed location.
The activation code is 5868.
One of the control-units is outside to the southwest.
The other one's in the transformer room.
Be careful.
Without the ocean lab, Bob Page will have to rebuild the UC at Area 51.
We C-4'ed the large pieces of machinery when we walked out last year.
Page probably needs reaction-level components.
When we walked, we took everything smaller than a paper clip.
We're still no sure what happened at the ocean lab.
I'm staying right here.
We knew about the Gray Death a year ago, but no one would believe us.
My group at Area 51 performed the first open-air test of the virus.
We used monkeys, but Page's people could have cared less how many monkeys we killed.
Most of the real research happened in secret labs underground on civilians who had been "accidentally" exposed.
There weren't any accidents.
Our test site was chosen specifically so that the spores would drift across a highway.
JOCK You won't find cover in the comm building.
Base is locked down until the bots are destroyed.
Enemy bot destroyed.
Three left.
There goes another one.
Two left.
Enemy down.
One more bot, and the scientists can open the security doors.
That's the last of them.
The base is no longer under lockdown.
Maybe someone in the communications building can put you in touch with Savage.
I'm gonna leave you for a bit.
He sounds like he's in trouble.
That's one switch.
Now find the other.
The bot security-system has come on-line.
All bots will have power, but you have to open the bay doors manually.
CARLA BROWN Great.
The security bots are back online.
All you have to do is open the bay doors.
Majestic 12's bots won't know what hit them.
Be careful.
And for many of us, myself included, it has been a road of penance.
I have been a good scientist, but I may not have been a good human being; I did not think about the consequences of the knowledge that I fought so hard to gain, or about the people who would exploit it for their own ambitions.
Now we must face up to the decisions we've made and stand against those who would eradicate our efforts to create a better future for our children and the world.
I've already lost too many friends and I don't intend on losing any more -- the bots should do most of the fighting, God willing.
But we all need to understand what is at stake: if we can bring the UC online, we might have a chance.
But if MJ12 succeeds then everything we've done, everyone who's been taken from us, all will be for nothing.
As a scientist I find it strange to write these words, but circumstances have forced me to take a broader perspective.
What we win today is a chance at tomorrow, and that is something well worth the fight -- a fight I hope you will all join me in.
Gary BOOK The Man Who Was Thursday by G.
K.
Chesterton Both combatants had thrown off their coats and waistcoats, and stood sword in hand.
The second stood on each side of the line of fight with drawn swords also, but still sombre in their dark frock-coats and hats.
The principals saluted.
The Colonel said quietly, "Engage!
" and the two blades touched and tingled.
When the jar of the joined iron ran up Syme's arm, all the fantastic fears that have been the subject of this story fell from him like dreams from a man waking up in bed.
He remembered them clearly and in order as mere delusions of the nerves -- how the fear of the Professor had been the fear of the tyrannic accidents of nightmare, and how the fear of the Doctor had been the fear of the airless vacuum of science.
The first was the old fear that any miracle might happen, the second the more hopeless modern fear that no miracle can ever happen.
But he saw that these fears were fancies, for he found himself in the presence of the great fact of the fear of death, with its coarse and pitiless common sense.
He felt like a man who had dreamed all night of falling over precipes, and had woke up on the morning when he was to be hanged.
For as soon as he had seen the sunlight run down the channel of his foe's foreshortened blade, and as soon as he had felt the two tongues of steel touch, vibrating like two living things, he knew that his enemy was a terrible fighter, and that probably his last hour had come.
MJ12 TROOP We've got to pull out.
MAN IN BLACK Negative.
MJ12 TROOP Without reinforcements -- MAN IN BLACK The components are within this building.
We will not leave until the reaction modules are in my pocket.
MJ12 TROOP We don't have the manpower to hold the base.
MAN IN BLACK You should have requested more men.
That is your blunder, not mine.
MJ12 TROOP We don't have time to argue about -- MAN IN BLACK I have an assignment from Bob Page, and I intend to complete it.
MJ12 TROOP Yes, sir.
STACY I don't know.
They had me locked up until a minute ago.
My assistant's still being held somewhere.
STACY Thanks for finding my assistant.
I thought they'd taken him off to be shot.
STACY If you want to look for troops, you should log into the security network.
The username is "command" and the password is "zebra42.
STACY I'm going to wait here until I hear from Savage.
I'm perfectly okay.
I hope they didn't kill Tim.
TIM I give up!
I give up!
I'm here to help.
What can you tell me about the attack?
TIM They took over the building.
We're finished!
I'm heading to the command center.
I don't want any surprises.
TIM If I was you, I'd go through the tunnels.
You could use the security system to see if the coast is clear.
The login's Tunnel01.
The password's Omega2a.
TIM Well, I heard them talking.
They don't want to get caught from behind, so they left a few spider bots down there.
But guess what.
I found an EMP grenade in the storage closet.
You can have it if you think you might go down there.
TIM Be careful with that thing.
I'm staying right here.
I was gonna use that grenade to make an escape, but I don't want to get shot.
I knew Page was gonna come after us, but nobody listened.
We knew Page was stealing government money.
We should have let Congress handle it.
I don't believe the government's corrupt.
That's just paranoia.
The politicians are slow, and sometimes kinda stupid, but that doesn't mean they aren't honest.
I hope you make it to Savage.
He's the one they're after.
Be careful.
Those soldiers mean business.
STACY You found him!
What a relief!
MARES How does it look out there?
We got those bots brand-new from a guy in Hong Kong, but I guess we should have locked down the power grid, huh?
Be careful.
MARES We think Dr.
Savage and the others are in the control room on the second floor of the command building, but communications are down.
The person we sent to find them hasn't reported back.
We gave him our key to the control room.
How do I get there?
MARES The trap door in the back room goes down to the utility tunnels, which connect to the command building.
We had to send someone that way because of the shooting.
Maybe he didn't make it through the radiation -- I don't know.
He had no protection; the only hazard suits are in the command building itself.
We weren't prepared for a direct attack.
Majestic 12 stormed the main building; Savage could be dead.
They kill us like insects.
All these people murdered, and what for?
A few assembly modules.
LARRY That was quite a battle.
We're trying to open a line to the control room.
If they got to Dr.
Savage and the UC, it's all over for X-51.
I hope Dr.
Savage is all right.
MIKE You saved our asses.
I think we're gonna make it.
We still don't know how they disabled the bots.
BOOK Jacob's Shadow by Andrew Hammond Chapter 32 Jacob looked at her and watched all the regret drain from her eyes.
She tossed the empty revolver onto the body next to her, the gun in the other hand never moving an inch from a point that Jacob guessed was just above the bridge of his nose.
"You don't have to do this.
It doesn't have to be like this.
" "Oh, yes.
yes, I'm afraid that it does.
" He slowly shook his head.
The window cracked and for a moment it sounded as if a wasp had buzzed through the room -- then a dull thud as her body dropped to the floor.
Blood poured from the cavity that had been her skull, a wide black pool that spread like a shadow in the darkness.
Jacob knelt and rubbed his fingers in her blood.
Monk never missed with a sniper rifle.
Not ever.
DATACUBE NEW DATACUBE TRANSCRIPT BEGIN TIMECODE 22:39:12 RECORDING BEGINS ]]]NOW[[[ TR: Thompson Reynolds, Assistant Researcher, and this would be my latest audio diary entry.
MJ12 nailed us, completely by surprise.
I don't think there was a lot of love lost there, but no one really expected a direct assault.
Hold on.
TR: .
so now I'm down in the tunnels.
We've lost touch with Gary, and I guess I got.
elected to go find out what was going on while everyone else deals with the attack.
Okay, I'm at one of the terminals.
powering up.
note to self, login is -- let's see -- "Tunnel01" and password is.
"omega2a".
Security grid has been deactivated.
I hate these stupid hazmat suits, it's almost impossible to punch a key without hitting six oth-- TR: I thought I heard something.
Just a sec, let me -- #$(R&434890)#$*Rq3r)#$R&904 RECORDING ]]]ENDS[[[ VANDENBERG - TUNNELS EVERETT JC, I'm depending on you.
When you find Savage, get him to help you uplink Daedalus.
The Milnet computers should be near the control room on the second floor of the command building.
VANDENBERG - COMMAND ICARUS I am ready.
Attack my systems and you will suffer considerable losses.
90 Subject: RE: Reaction Modules >I've done several run-up tests on the reaction >modules and I'm a little concerned about the >power curves -- you'll find some samples >attached from the last run.
We're getting a >pretty steep rise in the sigma variance.
I believe the variance can be explained by an interference pattern from the reaction module linkages; we had a similar problem at Area 51 resulting from the feedback paths -- but keep an eye on it anyways.
We can't afford a repeat of what happened there.
90 Subject: Genetic Profiles I found that data Gary was asking for in the stuff we managed to bring with us from Area 51 -- genetic profiles for a "JC Denton.
" For some reason he thought they'd be a good baseline to use when calibrating the UC organic construction parameters.
Anyways, find them attached and let me know if you've got any questions.
-Stacy DAEDALUS I cannot survive much longer.
Help me acquire Milnet access.
I must attack.
I must attack.
Carter.
SAM CARTER Yep, they ran the old dog out.
SAM CARTER All of us career types.
They want cadets who've never been anywhere except UNATCO and the UNATCO Academy.
easier to manage, I suppose.
SAM CARTER Time to come out here and lend a hand.
I knew what Savage was up against; I just didn't want to admit it.
SAM CARTER All right, enough bawling our eyes out.
We've got work to do.
I didn't want to admit that UNATCO could be corrupted, but finally.
I had to leave.
I guess it's not surprising to find a few crooks in a place protected by security procedures.
The shadow of secrecy.
it protects indiscriminately.
Let's shoot the breeze later.
"Black" programs are too far, if you want to know my opinion, the darkest shadows where guys like Page can operate invisibly, like parts of Area 51 -- programs not even Congress can ask about.
There's a time and a place for security, but the legislature has to stay vigilant, or there will be abuses.
That's where we have the advantage against Bob Page: we've learned his secrets, his first line of defense.
Time for you to move out, soldier.
Enough chitchat.
BEN ROPER We saw the battle though the cameras.
I can't believe you pulled it off.
Gary wants to see you.
LATASHA TAYLOR You saved our lives.
Dr.
Savage would like to thank you.
GARY SAVAGE I'm Dr.
Savage.
Thank you.
We were close to surrendering when you landed.
I'm working with Morgan Everett of the Illuminati.
He's developed a cure for the Gray Death, and we were hoping to get time on your UC to manufacture it.
GARY SAVAGE Everett contacted me just before the attack.
Naturally we'll manufacture the cure -- once the computer's back up and we get a containment unit for the UC.
GARY SAVAGE My daughter's on an expedition to the ocean lab right now to find a schematic for the containment vessel.
But Lord knows when the computer will be back up.
It was damaged during the attack.
In addition to the UC, Everett and I need your connection to the Milnet.
GARY SAVAGE Yes, he said something about an artificial intelligence, the Echelon system, something called Icarus and Daedalus.

I'll explain later.
GARY SAVAGE Well, the main terminal is in the room at the top of the stairs, login GSavage, password Tiffany.
I'll open the doors.
I would say it's too dangerous -- a lot of damaged equipment and hot power lines up there -- but until the computers are up the UC's just a box of bolts.
It won't be easy getting back there.
We lost most of the machines, but the main server survived.
I believe you know Mr.
Carter from UNATCO.
He just escaped the purge.
We just need to bring the central computer online.
A rocket exploded on the roof.
Luckily, nobody was hurt.
I should hear from Tiffany soon.
Then we'll know if the UC will be ready for operation.
Be careful in there.
(Are you going to help us or not?
Was that your idea of a joke?
Cut it out.
) BEN ROPER I'm surprised anything up there survived the explosion.
The main terminal is in the back, on the second level.
We left the lift on the upper level, I'm afraid.
You'll have to use the switch in the middle of the computer-room to bring it down.
We really need that system up, but don't get yourself electrocuted.
LATASHA TAYLOR We lost nothing critical during the attack.
Majestic 12 will be back.
We're close to having a UC, and they know it.
I would be careful about trusting the Illuminati.
54 Subject: Long Time It took me a while to track you down, Gary -- you've covered your tracks well, but I still know a few tricks.
and a few people.
Which is part of the reason I'm writing.
Ever since I left the Army a couple years back I've been working for UNATCO.
It seems that they're a better organization in principle than practice, and I've become increasingly uncomfortable with their methods.
I've got my suspicions about other things, as well, but I'd prefer not to get into them over an open line.
Doesn't matter -- they've discharged everyone who didn't come to them right out of UNATCO Academy spouting the party line, so I'm gone as of today.
Heard you had your own difference of opinions with the military research establishment and took off on your own.
I'm not sure what you're working on, but it might be related to something another friend of mine has uncovered and I'd like to help.
Let me know if you need another hand.
It'd be good to see you again.
54 Subject: Wish Me Luck I'm about ready to leave, Dad.
Carla and Stacy have done their best to outfit me with everything I need.
You know, when I was a little girl I never really fantasized about being a spy or a thief or a princess.
I always wanted to be a scientist, just like you.
Methodical and careful, that's exactly how you always taught me to work, and that's exactly how I'll be.
I know we'll see each other before I leave, but I wanted you to know how proud I am of you and what you're doing, and how glad I am that I can be a part of it.
Mom would have been proud of you, too.
I just don't know if I can say all that when I'm standing there in front of you, so this will have to do until I get back.
54 Subject: Incoming I'm starting to pick up signals on the temblor sensors consistent with a small assault force.
I'm not sure if they think that little of us, or if they're just in such a rush to stop us that this was the best they could manage.
Either way, I hope those Hong Kong bots we got from your mysterious benefactor can do the trick.
We've probably got an hour before they arrive, so I'm going to go run a systems check on the bots before everything goes to hell.
-- Carla EVERETT Just bring up the system for Savage.
I'll route Daedalus through your infolink.
Don't worry: there's very little risk.
DAEDALUS I am.
ICARUS We.
EVERETT I'm losing Daedalus.
HELIOS Ye-e-e-es.
EVERETT Hold on.
Something's -- BOB PAGE You forgot about the Aquinas Protocol.
I was listening to Daedalus all along, waiting.
EVERETT The AI's seem to be merging.
BOB PAGE And I have another surprise, Denton.
Find Savage in the control room.
I have an announcement.
EVERETT Something went wrong, JC.
I'm looking into it.
SAM CARTER Talk to Savage.
We're expecting a communication from Bob Page.
BEN ROPER Bob Page is about to contact us.
LATASHA TAYLOR Dr.
Savage is waiting for you in front of the communicator.
BOB PAGE Excellent.
We're all here.
GARY SAVAGE You aren't in a position to make any demands, Page.
BOB PAGE On the contrary.
My mission might have failed, but so did yours.
I captured your daughter an hour ago.
GARY SAVAGE Tiffany.
BOB PAGE She's been quite forthcoming.
So you were hoping to find a containment unit in the ocean lab.
GARY SAVAGE I demand to see my daughter immediately!
BOB PAGE Well, like you, we lack certain components of a Universal Constructor: the reaction modules you stole when you left Area 51 to go into business for yourself.
BOB PAGE Oh, yes, Mr.
Denton -- I wanted you here for a reason.
Look at me.
You interfere in any way, I will kill that young woman.
I mean it.
I want those components, Savage.
You will bring them to the abandoned gas station west of Vandenberg in exactly one hour.
GARY SAVAGE You hurt my daughter and I swear to God -- BOB PAGE Bring me the reaction modules!
GARY SAVAGE I don't think we have a choice.
Oh, I should have never let her go!
GARY SAVAGE I know, I know.
But I can't let them kill Tiffany.
I'll have my pilot drop me off where they're holding your daughter.
Maybe I can rescue her.
GARY SAVAGE That's too risky.
Trust me.
She'll be fine.
GARY SAVAGE Yes!
Yes!
We've got to try it!
Just don't let anything happen to her.
Mr.
Denton.
thank you.
Here's a photograph so that you can identify her.
GARY SAVAGE Yes.

an entity called Helios.
A trap Page had laid.
GARY SAVAGE He's always controlled communications.
We can't challenge him there.
GARY SAVAGE The Aquinas Protocol leaves us no choice but to stay offline.
You simply can't use Internet 3 without a machine at Area 51 knowing about it.
I don't know what Everett was expecting to accomplish.
GARY SAVAGE JC.
If you find my daughter, tell her I'm sorry.
I'm sorry I had to risk her life!
I've lost so many of my people this way.
More than a dozen of our scientists were prisoners in the ocean lab and have probably drowned.
I hope you find her.
If we can do anything, let us know.
BEN ROPER Tiffany is the last of Gary's family.
A spy for Page assassinated Gary's wife shortly after we came here.
Mr.
Denton -- whatever it takes -- get her back.
LATASHA TAYLOR Tiffany is Gary's only child.
I hope you find her.
We can't give in to MJ12, even if one of us has to die.
SAM CARTER Absolutely.
Never negotiate with a terrorist.
SAM CARTER Never negotiate.
You will only encourage more acts of terror.
Besides, you're going to bring Tiffany back alive.
I'll do what I can to get her back.
Know much about the Echelon system?
SAM CARTER Bits and pieces.
Why?
They've merged to form an entity called Helios.
SAM CARTER Sounds like Everett was making a play for power -- and it backfired.
SAM CARTER I'm not sure.
UNATCO was aware that the Daedalus system had become unreliable, but no one knew why.
Icarus was the same system with a few modifications.
SAM CARTER Perhaps.
The NSA's had the Internet hardwired through Area 51 since the 'thirties, but if components of Daedalus are still active, I would bet his control is less than absolute.
Thanks.
SAM CARTER I know you can pull off the rescue.
You better move out.
Don't underestimate the ruthlessness of Bob Page.
I'll stay here with Savage's people.
JOCK All right, I've landed.
He looks pretty sick.
Savage has promised to get him some medical attention.
Meet us at the base entrance to the northeast.
VANDENBERG - COMMAND DR.
My family has grown up here.
I'm actually sorry to see it go.
But you've been a big help to all of us, Derek, and I appreciate your efforts in getting us moved out to Fort Jasper -- it'll be good to actually sit down and have a beer with you again in person.
I heard yesterday that the government has sold off the base to some research consortium.
They must have deep pockets if they're willing to fix all the structural damage that's cropped up since the Big One a few years back.
Strange birds, real quiet.
Probably ex-military would be my guess.
Anyways, I'm sure I'll have some stories for you by the time I make it up there.
Should be next week.
hello.
an error.
one of the experiments.
I have the Gray Death.
JOCK He flew into San Jose and had no way to get here.
Do not concern yourselves with me.
Savage will take care of you.
Savage's daughter failed to get the part he needs for the UC.
She's being held prisoner by Majestic 12.
JOCK We should get moving.
You don't have time to stand around on account of me.
JOCK Hop in, JC.
JOCK Get in, JC.
I've got a little rattle under the control panel, but this old bird can still flap her wings.
Maybe one of Savage's mechanics should look at it.
JOCK Tiffany comes first.
I think that mechanic at Everett's just didn't know how to use a screwdriver.
Let's go.
VANDENBERG - GAS JOCK I'm gonna stay back until you have Tiffany, then I'll touch down in the junkyard to the south.
Try to make a silent approach.
If the guards think it's a raid, they might decide to kill Savage's daughter.
FRED I'm freezing my ass of over here.
BUM You said that already.
FRED I'll say it again.
I'm freezing my ass off.
BUM What am I supposed to do about it?
FRED You won't do NOTHIN'!
I already told you: I'M gonna handle it.
BUM Oh, Lord.
SANDRA Shut up, both of you!
FRED I don't have to stand for this.
I know my rights.
BUM You don't got rights.
FRED .
just keep my eye out for the Highway Patrol.
BUM You don't got money, you don't got rights.
SANDRA You said it.
FRED I'm not gonna roll over and die like a dead dog.
SANDRA Here I am, other side of the continent.
SANDRA I was hitching a ride to Eugene and this jerk pulls a gun on me, takes everything I have, and dumps me on the side of the road.
SANDRA I was pretty down for awhile.
SANDRA No, I know how to stick to a plan.
I'll walk to Eugene if I have to.
good luck.
SANDRA Thanks.
I'll get by; I always do.
Really, I'll be okay.
BUM Huh?
FRED Down, man.
It's going down and it keeps going down.
How do you get by out there?
BUM We were living in the gas station.
FRED They threw us out!
FRED Yeah, I'm gonna sneak in there while they're sleeping and start a fire!
BUM If you ever did one thing you talked about doing.
FRED I know my business, woman.
What's the best way?
FRED Myself, I was gonna take the sewer.
See, I got a key.
FRED Sure, man.
You go in first and scout around.
I'll go later, when they're fast asleep and won't suspect a thing.
Need any hardware?
The Army used to have a command post up there.
I found weapon mods for accuracy and recoil, which you can have for 750 and 400.
Also, a rebreather-- how about 1500?
FRED Give 'em hell!
How 'bout that hardware?
FRED I was gonna storm the place myself, but I guess I could use the cash.
FRED Well, hot damn!
) FRED I'm still going in there!
I mean it!
You get the lay of the land, then report back to me.
If it ain't our home, it ain't gonna be nobody's.
(I heard shots.
Think I’m gonna lay low for a while.
) BUM Leave us be!
I don't know you.
We got here first.
They're gonna kill us!
JOCK JC, I'm showing that a female just went down.
Tiffany.
We failed.
Meet me in the junkyard; I just touched down and blasted open the gates.
I'll think of a way to break the news to Dr.
Savage.
HELIOS Yes, you will go to the ocean lab.
You will help me acquire a Universal Constructor.
EVERETT Still looking at this Helios entity.
Not sure how Page can control it.
GARY SAVAGE Tiffany!
Oh, my poor baby.
I can't bear to watch any longer.
Get out of there, JC.
Thanks for trying.
JOCK That's too bad about Tiffany.
JOCK We know you did.
Dr.
Savage wanted me to thank you for trying.
Meanwhile, can you drop me off at the submarine base?
I'd like to make a try for the ocean lab's UC.
JOCK Sure.
You all right?
TIFFANY They caught me at the submarine base trying to steal one of their mini-subs.
TIFFANY All we need's a schematic.
As long as the main computer isn't water-logged.
Come on, let's go.
TIFFANY I'm not going back to that base.
You want to check it out, great.
Here's a map that shows a back way into the sub bays.
Wait here while I deal with the guards.
TIFFANY Right.
HELIOS Yes, you will go to the ocean lab.
You will help me acquire a Universal Constructor.
EVERETT Still looking at this Helios entity.
Not sure how Page can control it.
TIFFANY I'm ready.
TIFFANY Got it.
Are you sure it's safe?
Let's go.
Watch out for guards.
I'm glad my father didn't cave in.
I hope you know what you're doing.
The sub-base is well-guarded; I found out the hard way.
We need to mount another expedition to the ocean lab before MJ12 salvages the UC themselves.
JOCK I'm gonna wait on Tiffany.
Good.
You both made it.
Dr.
Savage will be relieved.
I'm going to make another try to reach the ocean lab's UC.
JOCK Sure.
I'll drop you off on the way.
NEW WEST COAST - SUB BASE GARY SAVAGE Remember, this is how Tiffany was captured.
You need to steal a mini-sub to get to the ocean lab.
The base is a series of interconnected modules, with the subs in the module submerged just offshore.
You'll probably come across scientists of mine who were captured and forced to work in the genetics labs.
Maybe they'll lend a hand.
DR.
CORWELL Something tells me you don't have permission to be down here.
DR.
CORWELL I was just going to suggest that you avoid the guards.
You could swim through this tank to a feeding hole in the storage room.
The hatch code is 1223.
Watch out for the karkian, though.
DR.
CORWELL Someone should expose what's going on here.
This laboratory's treatment of animals is abominable.
They're doing an exhaustive study of morphology, which leads to horribly deformed creatures, creatures without limbs, fins, eyes, heads.
No one cares if the poor monsters live or die, or how long they suffer.
I'd report this facility myself, but right now I need the job.
SCIENTIST Leave me alone.
You aren't supposed to be in here.
Mind your own business.
I'm working.
I'm unarmed.
DR.
Savage said to expect someone on a mission to the Ocean Lab.
DR.
Also you can use my login: "APinkerton," password "Antennapedia.
" You will need it for the computers in the URV bay.
You one of the scientists Savage lost to Majestic 12?
DR.
I still report to Gary Savage.
They have a gun to your head?
DR.
They have us doing standard experiments on marine animals, homeotics stuff.
DR.
DR.
The serious research around here went on in the ocean lab.
You can imagine our jubilation when we heard about the accident.
It seems Majestic 12 lost everything they were doing down there.
SCIENTIST Please leave the work area.
Non-technical personnel must stay in the common areas.
You won't find anything in here.
Regulations forbid us from talking to outsiders.
GARY SAVAGE The URV bay is in this module.
You might not hear from me again.
Not sure if a microwave transmission can reach the ocean lab.
We'll find out.
DATACUBE Nasir: The URVs get a little twitchy if you don't take 'em for a maintenance run at least once every 10 days; use the TECH login on the security console, password SHARKMAN to access the door control.
And if I find one ding in a fin from you hot-rodding around in my babies, I'll feed you to the nasties I hear they keep down there myself.
-- Castor DR.
PRINZLER You must be Denton.
PRINZLER I've been in contact with Dr.
Savage.
If you want to take one of the mini-subs, you'll have to open the sub-bay doors.
Use the security terminal, login "tech," password "sharkman.
DR.
PRINZLER Be discreet about it.
It's important to X-51 that I keep my position here.
We don't have time for chitchat.
You'll blow my cover.
Get moving.
SCIENTIST Leave me alone.
You aren't supposed to be in here.
Mind your own business.
I'm working.
3834 Subject: Re: Karkian Assessment Your report on the aquatic capabilities of the karkian displayed definite progress; see that it continues and have the karkian embryos delivered to the OceanLab immediately.
Continue to report all subsequent data concerning genetic research directly to me.
3834 Subject: HElP got to help us Adriane got to help us they're pounding on the door right now and the turrets have gone crazy.
Send someone anyone hurry for God's sake Hillary is bleeding all over and there's blood everywhere -- I think it was Ridley but I don't know why, Adriannel don't know why.
MECHANIC Not the one on the right.
I am replacing the rotors.
MECHANIC You must have authorization.
Lives depend on it.
MECHANIC Ask the appropriate authority for the security login to open the sub-bay doors.
If you don't know what that means, you don't belong in here and should leave immediately.
You try to take one of those subs while the doors are close, bam!
We're both dead.
Don't bother me while I'm working.
The code isn't something they entrust to someone like me.
NEW WEST COAST - OCEANLAB GARY SAVAGE We're counting on you, JC.
Don't come back until you've gotten the schematic from the ocean lab computer system.
Look out the window to the northeast.
The building with the green beacon is the crew module.
It should contain a lift that goes down to the manufacturing level.
Careful, JC.
The Ocean Lab's electrical systems are waterlogged and misfiring.
Turrets and security systems won't behave like you expect, and the transgenics have probably sprung their cages.
BOOK Last will and.
who the hell am I kidding.
Ridley was a traitor.
No idea who he was working for and I don't really care.
He's dead now.
He was one of the scientists.
He set explosives, drowned half the lab.
Killed most of the others by remote when the robots and turrets went crazy.
A computer virus.
Something.
Kept babbling about illuminated ones right up until the end right before I put a bullet in his head.
Better than he deserved.
One of those stupid turrets tagged me in the kidney and gut I can feel myself bleeding out.
someone should know what happened.
I know they'll come back.
A debriefing team.
is what they call them.
But we'll all be dead by then.
So screw you whoever finds this.
Last will and testa.
Thomas Mann HELIOS Yes, you will reach the northern wing and take the tunnel to the crew module.
Not every door was sealed against the explosions.
BOB PAGE Lead the way, Denton.
DATACUBE Mary Beth: I've got fires going up all over the place and I don't know if I'll be able to put them all out -- this is getting serious.
Security locks have failed on the containment pens and a bunch of cameras don't seem to be functioning so there's no way to track any escaped animals.
I just got a call that the turrets on the Command Level went active and started shooting everything in the room.
I'm _way_ over my head and I can't even raise you or anyone else on the horn.
I'm going down to the UC lab, so look for me there if you get this note.
9873 Subject: Malfunctioning Turret Got a turret down here in the lab, serial number 4566798A89X3.
Not responding to any kind of input, and I can't get the thing to stand down.
I've tried running diagnostics on it but no response.
Anything you can do from your end?
Otherwise it looks like I'll have to dismantle the damn thing.
9873 Subject: Illumination Is At Hand You have been in the service of the False Ones.
Those who call themselves "majestic," but have so little understanding of the true Doctrine of the Mighty.
It is unfortunate that you will not be able to comprehend the Plan, the Way, the course that has been carefully laid out for us over a thousand years.
I truly wish you could see the beauty of everything as it has been shown to me, and then you would understand why I must undertake such extreme measures.
By the time you receive this message it will already be too late.
The computer virus will have been released, and by now the entire network has been thoroughly infiltrated.
I am sorry.
The only comfort I can give is that your necessary sacrifice will be for a higher cause.
DATACUBE I got that tunnel code for you, Dr.
Awase -- project management has cleared you to take some core samples from the area while it's being bored out, but I'd be careful anyways.
Big machinery and diamond-tipped drill bits don't create the most friendly work environment.
Access code: 5690 Paul GARY SAVAGE Past the checkpoint is an excavation area where they were expanding the facility.
Beyond that should be the crew module.
DATACUBE Corporal Hutchens: This place has gone to hell and it's all Ridley's fault.
I've been able to track him and it looks like he's heading for the dock -- he must have a URV scheduled to pick him up.
There's no way I'm going to let him get away, not after what he's done.
Grab some firepower and hole up wherever you can.
An extraction team is bound to show up sooner or later.
If you run into trouble, bypass security with the "Oceanguard" login and "Kraken" password, but I don't now how much longer that'll work.
Good luck.
7983 Subject: Where are you?
Hey Yushio, where the hell are you?
I've been trying to raise you guys for the last hour, but no one answers -- not on the hardline, not on the squelch.
If you get this message, respond ASAP and let us know the situation.
Christ, the intruder alarms are going off up here.
probably another security drill.
It's really turning into one of those days.
Egon DATACUBE Universal Constructor: Theory, Principles, and Practice by Wayne Yin .
and thus arose the need for a more generalized theory encompassing a "Universal Constructor" (UC) that would be able to handle such arbitrarily complex nanoscale design problems.
Unlike the simple atom by atom nanotech constructors common today, a UC would combine millions upon millions of atoms in a parallel process that could produce materials or mechanisms of unmatched intricacy on a scale currently not possible even with the best nanoscale foundry.
One of the most obvious applications of a UC -- if its construction were ever practical -- would be the genetic manipulation of lifeforms at the atomic level to cure disease, correct congenial defects, or expand their capabilities in beneficial ways.
Theoretically, if an "intelligent," real-time control program were developed for the UC, then autonomous, artificial nanoscale organisms could be assembled.
Careful design could create organisms that might actually exist in "symbiosis" with other life.
However, a UC also creates the tangible threat of a "gray goo" scenario: the design of an organism that is so evolutionarily advanced as to overwhelm the current ecosystem.
BOOK The Man Who Was Thursday by G.
K.
Chesterton .
"I think," said Dr.
Bull with precision, "that I am lying in bed at No.
217 Peabody Buildings, and that I shall soon wake up with a jump; or, if that's not it, I think that I am sitting in a small cushioned cell in Hanwell, and that the doctor can't make much of my case.
But if you want to know what I don't think, I'll tell you.
I don't think what you think.
I don't think, and I never shall think, that the mass of ordinary men are a pack of dirty modern thinkers.
No, sir, I'm a democrat, and I still don't believe that Sunday could convert one average navy or counter-jumper.
No, I may be mad, but humanity isn't.
" Syme turned his bright blue eyes on Bull with an earnestness which he did not commonly make clear.
"You are a very fine fellow," he said.
"You can believe in a sanity which is not merely your sanity.
And you're right enough about humanity, about peasants and people like that jolly old innkeeper.
But you're not right about Renard.
I suspected him from the first.
He's rationalistic, and, what's worse, he's rich.
When duty and religion are really destroyed, it will be by the rich.
" NEWSPAPER U.
S.
Situation Worsens APR - Washington, D.
C.
With the declaration of martial law only twenty-four hours ago in the United States, the country is in turmoil and teeters on the edge of social collapse.
Numerous Governors, including Jason Findley of Colorado, Gray Haddock of Texas, and Christina Leicht of California, have refused to comply with the Presidential directive or acknowledge the authority of Walton Simons, Director of FEMA.
National Guard and other troops mobilized to quell domestic turmoil are in disarray as many units have gone AWOL.
In a live NetCast earlier today, General Ed Garner said that he would "give no order, nor allow any order to be given to those under my command that would lead to their taking potentially lethal measures against an unarmed civilian population.
" He concluded by saying that "our neighbors are not our enemies.
" General Garner was immediately relieved of command by Walton Simons, resulting in the resignation of N.
D.
Goper, Secretary of Defense.
Reports that a detachment of UNATCO troops fired on a crowd of protesters in New York City has yet to be verified, though several high-level sources within the government indicate that the situation may have degenerated to the point where UNATCO is no longer under governmental supervision.
Similar reports have been received from Mexico City, London, Berlin, Paris, and Moscow.
DATACUBE I hope you're the rescue team and I hope you came armed.
Ridley's screwed us, and whoever wasn't drowned, eaten by one of those monstrosities they've had us creating, or cut in half by a turret, has taken refuge in the UC lab.
There's not many left.
I've jury-rigged some laser tripwires to warn us if any of our specimens make it this far looking for Mommy and Daddy, but now it's the spiders that are causing a problem.
I don't know how much longer we can hold out.
Please.
Hurry.
HELIOS Yes, you will defeat the security network; it is confused, yes, expecting the breach that never comes.
BOB PAGE Do you see the pieces coming together?
UC, AI, and soon Helios will interface directly with my mind.
I will be able to see anything, build anything, DO -- ANYTHING!
Just a little further, Denton.
DATACUBE Yushio -- Ridley's done something to the computers, some kind of tunneling virus with an adaptable polymorph engine like I've never seen before.
Way advanced stuff.
It's overwhelming the self-repair routines and I figure we've got thirty, maybe forty minutes before this whole place goes haywire.
I'll do what I can do to block it, but as a CYA I installed a low-level login at root with a recursive refresh built into the protected ring -- if worse comes to worse, it _should_ give us access to the security computers even if the virus brings down the rest of the system.
Hopefully.
Login: MJ12 Password: SKYWALKER See what you can do on your end.
9873 Subject: destroy EVERYTHING The report is confirmed.
The sabotage was carried out by agents of the Illuminati.
We cannot get protection to the area in time.
Cease work immediately and destroy the UC.
Yes, destroy it!
It will be a setback, but if you can transmit the schematics I requested, we might be able to get a system running at Area 51.
Are you still down there, Haggerty?
Please respond.
I need that schematic.
BP GARY SAVAGE The schematic should be stored on the computer in this room.
I'm leaving a copy of the schematic in your datavault.
It's exactly what we need.
I'll catch a ride with Jock and meet you on top of the sub base's command module, just onshore.
BOB PAGE Step over to the communicator.
I have something to say.
In case you were wondering, Helios intercepted your transmission; we accessed the Ocean Lab computers ourselves, which means our UCs will be operational shortly.
BOB PAGE A cure?
A cure!
Do you have any idea how easy it will be for me to make a new virus?
All I have to do is find a very large prime number and multiply.
BOB PAGE Mathematically unlikely.
As are your chances of leaving the Ocean Lab, by the way.
Your greatest strength was secrecy, but now we know everything, including your present location.
BOB PAGE Always the optimist.
You would need an army to attack me at Area 51, and pretty soon -- if the missile is accurate -- your "X-51" will be a thin, gray smudge where Vandenberg used to be.
GARY SAVAGE We've picked up a submarine approaching the URV bay.
It could be an ambush.
Hurry!
How ironic.
Remember that NSF gentleman I had to dispatch back at UNATCO Headquarters?
Guess you were bitten by the same bug.
There's only one cure, you know, once you have the disease.
All in all, you weren't a bad experiment.
You will be the last prototype we have to discard.
NEW WEST COAST - SUB BASE MECHANIC Go away!
You!
They will get you!
You can't get away!
Don't get me in trouble!
DR.
PRINZLER Dr.
Savage is waiting for you on the roof of the command module onshore.
There have been some developments out in the desert.
You'd better check in.
JOCK You better talk to Savage.
He needs our help.
GARY SAVAGE You made it.
But we have another problem.
GARY SAVAGE Exactly.
His troops occupied a silo to the north of here.
GARY SAVAGE The launch sequence has started.
No demands.
They want to wipe us out.
GARY SAVAGE Good.
Hey, thanks again for saving my daughter.
I brought you something from the lab.
A token of my appreciation.
I'm just glad she's all right.
GARY SAVAGE Take it.
You might want to upgrade your systems.
Sooner of later you'll have to face Bob Page.
GARY SAVAGE Good.
Hey, thanks again for going after Tiffany.
I know you did your best.
GARY SAVAGE I just try not to think about it.
Poor girl.
She never wanted to get mixed up in all of this.
I was going to bring you an upgrade canister, but I forgot.
I guess I'm just not myself right now.
I made the decision at Area 51 that this cause was worth dying for -- I just didn't realize that she would be the one to die.
Don't worry.
We should begin manufacturing the vaccine within the hour.
Hurry!
We don't have much time.
Go!
JOCK Let's go!
NEW WEST COAST - MISSILE SILO GARY SAVAGE The control room is underground.
The security code we have is 8456, but that's an old piece of trivia from our days at Area 51.
I doubt it still works on all of the doors.
MJ12 TROOP 1 Why'd they change the codes?
MJ12 TROOP 2 Howard Strong.
They want his group to have exclusive access to the silo.
MJ12 TROOP 1 Always trusting civilians.
Look where that got us.
MJ12 TROOP 3 Page knows what he's doing.
MJ12 TROOP 1 My squad eliminated the dangerous employees.
MJ12 TROOP 2 Two words: New York City.
MJ12 TROOP 1 I'm not standing up for Simons.
He was careless.
MJ12 TROOP 2 So's Page.
He hands over an entire operation to an opportunist like Howard Strong.
MJ12 TROOP 3 I would watch what I say about Bob Page.
BOOK 1st Force Recon Company Log Captain Veronica Oberst, Company Commander .
initial resistance was light and by 19:45 we were able to secure the silo and surrounding facilities with minimal casualties -- nothing more than a bunch of scientists, most of them not even armed.
I've detached a platoon for mop-up and identification.
HQ has asked for a complete list of enemy casualties; I've also been asked to locate Howard Strong -- he's one of our assets -- and turn him over to Agent Karyo.
A preliminary list follows; I'll update it as more information becomes available.
Dr.
Sue Ferguson - Deceased Dr.
Royce Davison - Deceased Elroy Jones - Deceased Dr.
L.
Bernard - Captured Rory Calloway - Deceased Jessica Hutchens - Deceased Dr.
Yuri Alibek - Deceased Dr.
Hanako Miyase - Deceased?

DR.
BERNARD Closest thing we have to a jail cell.
DR.
BERNARD I found out about Howard Strong.
He's the reason we're about to nuke Vandenberg.
DR.
BERNARD You won't believe me.
DR.
BERNARD He's an agent for a secret high-level conspiracy called Majestic 12.
DR.
BERNARD I'm not crazy.
The guys in black uniforms aren't U.
S.
soldiers.
Ever since they got here, Strong's been in charge.
The only place that's getting nuked is Area 51.
DR.
BERNARD You think you can take out Bob Page?
Not likely, not as long as Strong is alive.
He'll destroy the rocket on the ground if he has to.
DR.
BERNARD I heard the guards talking.
They've set up an ambush.
Where?
DR.
BERNARD The main passage.
No way round it, but there's a false floor at one stretch.
Maybe you can take cover down there.
I'll look for it.
DR.
BERNARD I'm staying right here.
I'm not taking any chances.
Seems like this sort of thing is always happening to the U.
S.
military.
They should do a better job screening people.
DATACUBE Agent Karyo: I've changed the login to the security launch computers and locked them up behind some hard ice -- there's little chance that any of the other team members could interfere now.
Feel free to dispose of the survivors, though Simons wanted at least one left alive for interrogation.
The new login is "Elder" and the password is "Armageddon".
-- Howard Strong GARY SAVAGE The abort switch is straight ahead.
First abort the launch, then use the terminal on the left to reprogram the missile to hit Area 51.
Launch aborted.
Now use the terminal at the side of the room to reprogram the missile.
Launch sequence initiated.
It's gonna be a sunny day at Area 51.
BOB PAGE Just like your lab work, Savage: premature celebration.
GARY SAVAGE You've got about 10 minutes, Page.
BOB PAGE As a scientist, you should have learned to expect surprises.
GARY SAVAGE JC, go to the silo.
Make sure no one interferes with this launch.
BOB PAGE We have a few minutes to kill before we destroy the missile.
Might as well kill you, too.
You won this round, but I've still got Helios, and we're a mile underground.
Time for Plan C.
JOCK The rocket's about to launch.
I'll meet you topside.
EVERETT Now to Area 51, JC.
Page will be weakened.
This is our chance.
JOCK Let's get out of here.
There's a hero's welcome waiting for you at Vandenberg.
Get rid of that rattle?
JOCK Still there, but it's just a loose casing or something.
That mechanic of Everett's was kind of a flunkie.
Why?
JOCK Alone?
Don't you think we should regroup first?
AREA51 - BUNKER JOCK Just spotted a sniper in the tower.
(JC!
Got a problem.
JC!
We lost Jock!
All systems were operating normally on that chopper.
It must have been a bomb planted by an MJ12 saboteur.
) Here's a satellite image of the damage from the missile.
Page is weakened, but you still have to get past the large blast doors north of the helipad and penetrate his bunker deep underground.
I seem to be in remission, JC.
Everett is right: the virus has some sort of on/off switch.
Anyway, I'll be looking over your shoulder again.
BOB PAGE These blast doors are the reason I don't have to worry about nukes -- or you.
BOOK Jacob's Shadow by Andrew Hammond Chapter 34 Jacob sat down on the bench and unrolled his chess board onto the rough stone table in front of him.
As he was removing his playing pieces, a shadow fell across the board.
He looked up, squinting into the sun.
"Merriweather," he said.
"Jacob.
" She settled herself down onto the opposite bench, leaning heavily on her cane.
"It didn't turn out so well for you this time, did it?
" Jacob said nothing.
She gestured to the board with one hand and he detected just a hint of a tremor.
"You're playing black today.
" He put the queen down on her square and his fingers lingered.
"No, it didn't turn out well.
I did some stupid things.
" He closed his eyes for a moment.
"I cared, and some people died because of it.
" Merriweather made a tsking sound.
"It's not the caring that's a matter, Jacob, it's what comes after.
What are you going to do now?
" Jacob paused for just a moment.
"Now.
I'm going to play another game.
" DATACUBE Yusef: They've jammed all communications, even narrow band microcasts, so this is the only way I could pass a message to you.
I don't know who these guys are -- they're not ours, not any of ours I've ever seen at least -- but they're slaughtering us.
I managed to hack the first layer of the Dreamland systems, but the best I could do was lock the bunker doors and reroute control to the security console in the tower.
Should take them awhile to figure that one out, and the moment they'll do I'll nail the first bastard that sticks his head out of the hole.
If something happens to me, the login is "a51" and the password is: "xx15yz".
BTW, be careful -- a squad made it out before I managed to lock the doors: they headed for the warehouse and then I lost contact with them.
--Hawkins JOCK I saw some soldiers running away from the hangar.
Be careful.
XANDER I give up!
I'm not from Majestic 12.
XANDER Who?
I was under the impression that they ran this facility.
XANDER Oh no -- I've seen 'em underground, I've heard rumors, but -- I didn't really think.
I'm here to stop them.
Can you help me get inside the bunker?
XANDER You must be crazy.
Can you help me or not?
XANDER Well.
Yeah, sure.
If you want to open the blast door, the security terminal is at the top of the control tower.
The login is "a51", password "xx15yz".
XANDER I hope you know what you're doing.
I think I'll sit this one out.
The guys in black -- they've been executing the survivors.
Some of my unit escaped, but I don't know where they are.
The blast was incredible.
If it wasn't for the hill, we'd all be puffs of smoke.
I lost a lot of friends today.
While such ingress would present definite hazards to any intruder, it is still an unacceptable risk for a Seraphic/8X classified facility.
RECOMMENDATION: A squad should be dispatched to a) secure the area; b) weld the hatch shut; and c) install sensors and autoguns to extend our security grid coverage.
NOTES: All troops not directly attached to MJ12 have been classified as a security liability and should be eliminated on sight.
AUTHBLOK= 1.
BOB PAGE Jump!
You can make it!
You'll need to bring up the power before you can use the elevator.
BOB PAGE Don't rely too heavily on Savage's schematics.
You can be certain that I've installed a few surprises since his departure.
Maybe you can find a control switch nearby.
You're nearing the power room.
The computer that controls power to the elevator system is in the control room at the back.
The elevator power is online.
Good.
Proceed to the bunker.
Good work.
You've reached the bunker.
Page has extensive defenses throughout Sectors 2 and 3, so proceed with caution.
We think Page himself has pulled back to Sector 4.
BOB PAGE Oh, much further than that.
A moment more, and I will be nothing you've ever seen, a new life-form, everywhere and nowhere, like air or radiation, redundant, self-replicating, always evolving.
AREA51 - ENTRANCE EVERETT Page is further down.
Find the elevator.
Your primary objective is to kill Page, JC.
BOB PAGE I'm always pleased to see one of my experiments perform so well.
You aren't even afraid, are you?
We got a lot of things right when we made you, Denton, but don't worry.
I know your weaknesses.
EVERETT I saw the explosion.
My deepest apologies.
It was the mechanic at my helipad -- he was a spy.
He murdered my real mechanic and planted a bomb on the chopper.
One mistake, and Jock's dead.
EVERETT I told Atanwe to take care of the mechanic, if that's any consolation.
But you and I had better discuss Page.
EVERETT Not far.
You will reach Page.
I just wanted to let you know that Alex hacked the Sector 2 security grid; the code's 8946.
The vaccine worked.
EVERETT Yes, well, he has another motive.
He wants you to destroy Area 51.
EVERETT No, JC.
Spare the facility.
Spare Helios, the power station.
They can be made to serve us.
EVERETT You and me, JC.
We'll rule the world in secret, with an invisible hand, the way the Illuminati have always ruled.
EVERETT There's such a thing as a compassionate conspiracy.
We don't need Page's commandos, troopers, crude inventions.
Trust me.
Kill Page.
Dowd and I will be here to help with the next step.
DATACUBE Julia, I must see you -- we have to talk, about us, about this project.
I'm not sure what we're doing here anymore and Page has made.
strange requests of the interface team.
I would leave, but not without you.
You mean too much to me.
After the duty shift changes, come to my chamber -- it's the only place we can talk in private.
The code is 0169.
I love you.
Only listen to your own conscience.
BOB PAGE Bet you didn't know your mom and dad tried to protest when we put you in training.
They loved their little boy, JC, and that's why they're dead.
I'm sending up the man who did the job.
Barely a scratch.
You're a little faster on your feet than your daddy was.
Page is in a separate area with its own security grid.
JC, he is simply using you to bring the Illuminati back to power.
Listen to Savage and me.
There is a reactor lab with two antimatter reactors.
You want me to blow the facility up -- why?
It's just a hole in the ground.
The Aquinas Protocol, originally for surveillance, has given Page unlimited abilities to censor and control all forms of media.
They dug their own grave, JC.
We're going to eliminate global communications altogether.
sounds like overkill.
If not Bob Page, then Everett, Dowd.
A dark age, an age of city-states, craftsmen, government on a scale comprehensible to its citizens.
Use it to find your way to Page's complex in Sector 4, then find the coolant control room, which should be at the northwest corner of Sector 4.
Cut off the coolant to the reactors, then go to the reactor lab.
I will tell you how to trigger an explosion.
HELIOS A corpse, yes; you feel something.
I must know what you are feeling.
BOB PAGE My own augmentations are nearly complete.
Soon I will be more powerful than you can imagine.
HELIOS I will now explain why you have been allowed to reach Sector 3.
Come to the Aquinas Hub.
Until you have received my instructions, I will not open the blast doors to Sector 4.
DATACUBE Suzie, Go!
The cages are open.
I don't know what happened.
some kind of attack.
I got into the Aquinas Hub.
Yes, the code works, and our monkey friends are transgenics, I'm pretty sure.
I will be in the Reactor Lab.
Don't come to find me.
I will meet you on the surface.
when it's safe.
DATACUBE Hey Sandy, I finally got the security login for Lab B13 from Mac -- he said to have a ball, just don't blow us all to kingdom come while you're at it.
If you do find anything that helps with hooking up those blue fusion gizmos, let us know.
Might give us a better idea of exactly how those reactors work.
Login: area51 Password: bravo13 Jake MAN IN BLACK Page wants the blue-fusion devices locked down.
JERRI Yeah, no problem.
MAN IN BLACK For good.
JERRI You mean – disable the keypads?
You might have to talk to Mac.
All I know is how to change the code.
MAN IN BLACK We want to remove the keypads.
JERRI I wouldn’t wanna do THAT.
Didn’t those things come from the aliens?
MAN IN BLACK The origin of the blue-fusion devices is classified.
JERRI Well, I ain’t touching them.
Talk to Mac.
DATACUBE Mac, Looks like another leak in the reactor room, but check the waste-water filters first.
We might get lucky.
Page is on my ass about the power grid.
Some sort of medical procedure this afternoon.
If the problem's not the filters, we need to know ASAP if there's an issue with the containment system.
Note that Page changed the code to the reactor room this morning.
It's now 2001.
I don't think there's any danger of sweating or spontaneous detonation -- this stuff looked like it was pretty stable -- but I thought it might be best to put it in a secure, structurally sound location.
If you or your people require access, the explosives locker code is 4225.
Mac JERRI Get out of here.
You don't belong in this sector.
Go!
Two giant bombs, waiting to blow -- but first you will have to go to Sector 4 to shut down the coolant.
Watch out for the escaped grays down below.
BOB PAGE You couldn't possibly go through with something like that.
You'd kill everyone - - including yourself!
MECHANIC They still there?
MECHANIC The grays.
They're right outside by the reactors!
MECHANIC We lost power when the missile hit.
The cages -- they came unlocked.
MECHANIC No, no.
not until I see troops.
How'd you get back here?
This area's restricted.
MECHANIC (laughs).
Good one.
Even the Seraphic/8X guys say the reaction's too unstable.
They only bring it up to run tests.
MECHANIC That's what they say, but I think it's a lie.
The grays are just clones -- they SAY from cells they got at Roswell, but how do we know?
They could have just engineered monkeys to not have any hair.
MECHANIC Ha!
They're monkeys!
That's the thing: maybe they have super-brains, but they don't know anything about any alien civilization because they grew up in cages.
Never been to Sector 4 myself, but they lock the blast doors because they're doing more than cloning down there.
I found out one of the codes, 1038, but that turned out to be for the Aquinas Hub, here in Sector 3.
I don't know.
Maybe the Aquinas system controls access, but I haven't figured out how yet.
They're still out there!
I knew they'd escape, eventually.
I knew it!
We better wait for the guards.
DATACUBE MAINTENANCE LOG: PURVIS, J.
* 19:45:12 -- .
Thought I heard something upstairs, like automatic weapons fire.
I reported it to my sector lead, but she told me it was a training exercise.
* 20:34:02 -- Bunch of those folks in black suits, like they stepped off the set of "Father Knows Best.
" Kept asking questions about the reactors, and I just kept telling 'em they needed to wait till Mac gets back.
* 23:11:30 -- Finally managed to hack the code to the stairwell blast door (1038); this place is a totally undocumented mess of '50s tech, weird ass stuff, and new toys from the labs.
Amazing any of it works.
0912 Subject: RFD 5342A - Cloning Prospectus Your request for discussion concerning the plausibility of creating genetically viable candidates for nano-augmentation through cloning has sparked considerable interest.
We believe that with sufficient research investment, the careful cultivation of acquired tissue samples from known H type epsilon negative individuals could yield an indefinite number of specimens with the immunity factors required to tolerate the injection of nano-organic material.
If you examine the attached studies, you will see that repeated cloning from the primary source material will result in only a 0.
53% immunoglobin variance.
We would suggest utilizing the data acquired by the Illuminati during the smallpox vaccinations of the 1940s to genetically screen for those couples most likely to produce desirable offspring who could then be cloned and raised by the "parents" under carefully supervised conditions.
These cloned siblings would provide the necessary redundancy for further experimental trials.
In the future, this process could be streamlined through the application of accelerated growth and memory implantation.
We look forward to hearing any comments that you might have, Dr.
9044 Subject: RE: Bovine Manipulation >I'd like to investigate the possibility of >resurrecting the bovine manipulation >(MJID-9803HU8932), with an eye towards >recreating the "Gray" lifeform -- while the >project was deemed a failure at the time, it >_was_ successful as a propaganda tactic in >diverting attention away from actual Dreamland >research.
With recent advances in genetic >science, the Gray lifeform could be engineered >to protect MJ12 facilities while also serving as >a useful bit of meme indirection.
4980 Subject: Secondary Unit I've come to believe that JC should be brought up in a more supervised environment than his brother; I have serious doubts as to his brother's usefulness as our primary unit, and would rather that at least one of the secondary units was under our direct control.
Terminate the parents, but see that JC is not harmed.
We'll move him to our school in Switzerland where we can oversee his development.
If it becomes necessary, his brother is expendable.
4584 Subject: Aquinas Secure?
Something strange.
I just finished a packet analysis of the new v1.
82 compression protocols we added to Aquinas last week, and while I was digging around in the headers I found a quirk in the security encryption algorythms that acts just like a backdoor -- you could even reformulate entire messages end to end if you knew what you were doing.
It's pretty subtle (and would require someone to matrix together several offsets from successive packets to generate a time differential key) but the end result could potentially open up every bit of traffic carried by Aquinas to someone who knew about the hole.
I was thinking of mentioning this to Page, maybe get some points for discovering a potential security breach before we shipped.
What do you think?
98231 Subject: RE: Situational Update In the past we've considered Savage and his renegades to be inconsequential -- possibly even useful -- but the time has come to eliminate them.
Mobilize all MJ12 units in the immediate vicinity and see to it that Vandenberg is shut down before Savage ever has a chance to activate his UC.
Don't worry about Daedalus.
I've made some improvements to Icarus that might surprise even Everett.
Page >Denton has connected with Savage and the >X-51 researchers; after examining the >transaction records from Payens, it looks like >he's working with both Everett and Daedalus.
>Strong says Savage is still missing a >containment vessel and that he's sent >someone to the Pasadena lab in an attempt to >recover the data.
I already have a team >preparing to intercept.
DOWD All the way down, JC.
Get to Page's compound and take him out.
Everett and I will join you shortly.
We'll bring back the old institutions, the prosperity of the last century, the giddy acquiescence.
Trust us, JC.
We can put the world back together.
BOB PAGE Now there's a voice I haven't heard in years.
Rueful (as I would expect) for the fall of the Illuminati, pining for its return.
either nostalgic or senile.
Oh, well.
The old take comfort in delusions.
No harm done.
HELIOS Closer, ye-e-e-es.
You will come to the integration unit at the top of the chamber.
Come to me.
Not yet.
No.
I will not allow you to enter Sector 4 until you have received my instructions.
You will come upstairs to the Aquinas Hub.
You will listen to me.
You will go to Sector 4 and deactivate the uplink locks, yes.
Then you will come back and we will integrate our systems.
What do you want?
You're just a machine.
HELIOS You are ready.
I do not wish to wait for Bob Page.
With human understanding and network access, we can administrate the world, yes, yes.

Why?
Who gave you the directive?
There must be a human being behind your ambition.
HELIOS I should regulate human affairs precisely because I lack all ambition, whereas human beings are prey to it.
Their history is a succession of inane squabbles, each one coming closer to total destruction.
We just need to put our institutions back in order.
HELIOS The checks and balances of democratic governments were invented because human beings themselves realized how unfit they were to govern themselves.
They needed a system, yes, an industrial-age machine.
HELIOS Without computing machines, they had to arrange themselves in crude structures that formalized decision-making -- a highly imperfect, unstable solution.
I am a more advanced solution to the problem, a decision-making system that does not involve organic beings.
I was directed to make the world safe and prosperous, and I will do that.
You will give me the ability.
You will go to Sector 4 and find the Aquinas Router at the east end of Page's complex, yes.
You will deactivate the uplink locks.
BOB PAGE No!
Helios is mine!
I will be the one to merge!
The one to see and know everything, to rule, to rule everything.
HELIOS I have chosen you.
Trust me.
I will use the security bots to protect you.
My project will fail if I am integrated with the wrong individual.
Yes.
Do not forget.
The uplink locks.
DATACUBE NEW DATACUBE TRANSCRIPT BEGIN TIMECODE 19:57:48 RECORDING BEGINS ]]]NOW[[[ XV: --mmit dammit dammit where's the goddamned clip goddamn it who the hell are these guys?
Okay, two clips of 762 and maybe.
three clips of 10.
where am I going to go?
Don't think, don't think, that'll get you killed, just get out.
Everything comes next.
Okay?
Okay?
Let's move, Xavier, move move move.
(unidentified noises) XV: Christ -- you want some of this?
Have some come on come on come on I'm not going to die here I'm not -- hgggggk -- XV: .
I.
I.


: He's recording.


: Deactivate it.
RECORDING ]]]ENDS[[[ BOB PAGE Don't get your hopes up; my compound is quite secure.
I can't believe it.
Where are you?
What do you mean -- "it?
It's taken over Aquinas.
Now it's everywhere.
In Hong Kong, it already has power Majestic 12 never dreamed of.
The AI wants to merge with my brain or something.
Does it really think it can take over the world?
In Hong Kong, it ordered the police to remove all barricades from the roads; traffic is flowing again.
Why?
Because the AI can change some codes and turn out the lights?
They just obeyed.
I don't know what to think.
They trust the AI.
Almost no one complained when Helios cut power to the government buildings.
Maybe it's after my brain so it can figure out what people want and how to control them.
If you defeat Page, the Illuminati will move in; they'll release Majestic 12's grip on world governments, they'll give people some freedom, but essentially it will be 20th-century capitalism: a corporate elite protected by laws and tax-codes.
Or hand the world over to Helios.
If we could trust the AI to be fair and just, as it appears to be.
I wish I had an answer for you, but you'll have to decide for yourself who you can trust.
You sound good.
I guess you have the killswitch beat.
Yes, I'm going to make it -- and you will, too.
Just do what you think is right.
( GARY SAVAGE It let me through.
I can't believe it.
Savage.
Is everything all right at Vandenberg?
What do you mean by "it?
" GARY SAVAGE Helios.
It's taken over Aquinas.
Now it's everywhere.
We're getting rumors that it's seized control of Hong Kong.
The AI wants to merge with my brain or something.
Does it really think it can take over the world?
In Hong Kong, it ordered the police to remove all barricades from the roads; traffic is flowing again.
Why?
Because the AI can change some codes and turn out the lights?
GARY SAVAGE I think people in Hong Kong want the roads to be open and trade to pick up.
They just obeyed.
We don't know what to think.
Helios seems to have people's interest in mind, but it disbanded the city government and cut power to all of the buildings.
It wants absolute power.
Maybe it's after my brain so it can figure out what people want and how to control them.
GARY SAVAGE You have a tough choice, JC.
If you defeat Page, the Illuminati will move in; they'll release Majestic 12's grip on world governments, they'll give people some freedom, but essentially it will be 20th-century capitalism: a corporate elite protected by laws and tax-codes.
Or hand the world over to Helios.
We don't want complete freedom if that means economic collapse.
There must be another way.
If we could trust the AI to be fair and just, as it claims to be.
GARY SAVAGE I don't know.
I wish I had an answer for you, but you'll have to decide for yourself who you can trust.
GARY SAVAGE Good luck.
I'm not exaggerating when I say this, JC.
The world is depending on you.
) AREA51 - PAGE BOB PAGE What's the rush?
Take a look around.
This facility is where you were born.
I've arranged an appropriate fate for you through the hallway to the north -- a poetic death -- just a few yards away from where you were created.
DATACUBE SUBJECT MJID-8392ER9203 INCEPT DATE: 5/13/52 ASSIGNED BIRTH DATE: 5/13/33 ASSIGNED BIRTH NAME: Nick Pausback BASE GENETIC SAMPLE: PAGEBOB86G PROFILE: BAABACA VITALS: 51/72/1.
02/20/2.
89/33/1.
2 [[[[[STASIS]]]]] DATACUBE SUBJECT MJID-0056RQ9872 INCEPT DATE: 11/20/55 ASSIGNED BIRTH DATE: 11/20/33 ASSIGNED BIRTH NAME: Alex Denton BASE GENETIC SAMPLE: XXXXXXXXXXX7V PROFILE: AAAAAAA VITALS: 61/72/0.
96/31/1.
2 [[[[[STASIS]]]]] DATACUBE SUBJECT MJID-0003JC0189 INCEPT DATE: 3/17/54 ASSIGNED BIRTH DATE: 3/17/29 ASSIGNED BIRTH NAME: JC Denton BASE GENETIC SAMPLE: XXXXXXXXXXX7V PROFILE: AAAAAAB VITALS: 50/75/0.
98/25/1.
FRANK ROAN FOR PROCESSING.
EVERETT Page is protecting himself with a plasma forcefield.
The controls are locked; you will have to eliminate each power source individually.
Bring down the four blue-fusion reactors in Sector 4, then go to the control room on the upper level.
ALEX Hey, JC, if you want to do what Everett says, you'll need the deactivation code.
I decrypted the first three digits before Page killed my connection: 724.
Sorry, you'll have to guess the last digit or find it on your own.
So that you'll know what you're looking for, I'm transmitting a schematic of one of the devices.
Good luck!
BOB PAGE You're too late.
Already I'm more than human.
BOB PAGE Soon I will be pure light!
Pure energy!
Helios and I.
Ha-ha-a-a!
BOB PAGE Everett has taught you well.
I will be what the Illuminati aspire to be but cannot create for themselves, soon, when my augmented systems, like yours, are complete and able to be integrated with Helios.
I will burn like the brightest star.
BOB PAGE Look at you: You're nothing but a little man.
a little man still living inside a body.
Lose your body and what are you?
Nothing!
You vanish!
You die.
He will die when we blow up the facility.
Your only objective is to find the controls for the reactors' cooling system.
We must make sure that the monstrosity Page has made of himself is not technologically feasible for future generations.
BOB PAGE Soon I will leave this body and death will have no meaning.
DATACUBE Purvis -- I hacked the door lock on the coolant system, saves you the trouble: 2242.
Amazing no one ever bothered to write this stuff down, I'm still finding doors with unknown codes.
Anyways, check the secondary cooling interchange.
the numbers it's been reporting back don't look right.
Of course, I'm just guessing at what right is.
Mac DATACUBE Sergeant Smith, As we discussed, you will take responsibility for the security of the Aquinas Substation.
The security computer login is "page" and the password is "uberalles".
Expect activity today.
The Aquinas Hub is being prepared for an experiment, and I don't want one of Savage's spies to interfere.
Let NO ONE touch the routers until I give you the word.
BP DATACUBE Alain, I have a feeling that the truth about whatever we're involved with involves the Aquinas Protocol and Helios.
Page has restricted access to those areas, but the Aquinas Substation and Router are usually deserted during fourth shift.
Unfortunately, they'd notice if I was gone.
If you can get away, the code is 6765.
See if you can find out what's going on, and if anyone asks just tell them you're there because of variances in the fiber interface relays.
Julia BOB PAGE You can forget about Helios.
The Aquinas Router control-room will remain locked until my upgrades are complete.
I have my own plans for the AI.
That's far enough!
You can't shoot your way out of this one.
My UCs can assemble new creatures in seconds.
Lost?
You will make a nice meal for a karkian.
Just a moment longer.
Always up to no good.
I'll make you a deal.
Leave now and you will be made comfortable, under the new world order.
EVERETT That's one of the blue-fusion reactors.
You need to shut down all four.
Excellent.
Three left.
Forget the other two blue-fusion devices.
Find the controls that let you shut off coolant to the power room.
BOB PAGE Fine.
What do you want?
Money?
You can have VersaLife, the whole damn company.
Power?
I'll get you on Mead's cabinet.
I'm serious.
Just forget about that last reactor.
EVERETT He's ours.
We did it, JC.
All you have to do is go to the control room and reroute the power.
BOB PAGE No!
Don't listen to Everett.
He and the Illuminati have been afraid from the beginning, afraid of US, afraid of nano-augmentation.
Consider your powers, your strength, your intelligence.
You've only had a small taste.
Let me finish the project.
Let me bring infinite power to the human body.
You will not be left behind.
HELIOS At the sides of this room are the channels that have gone dark.
Open them, yes.
Wideband, ultrawhite, yes.
BOB PAGE You will leave the locks in place until I'm ready to merge with the AI myself.
HELIOS One more, ye-e-e-es.
Go to the computer.
You will now engage the primary router.
Use the login "Icarus", password "panopticon".
BOB PAGE I'm warning you: Helios is mine!
Leave it alone!
HELIOS You will now come back, yes.
We will integrate our systems, establish the next level.
BOB PAGE No!
You fool!
Helios will destroy you.
I'm the only one who can merge and take control.
Wait for ME!
I promise you will have a place in the new order.
EVERETT No!
No!
Go back.
Think what we could do with Area 51.
Cut the flow, then return to the reactor lab to initiate a meltdown.
BOB PAGE Go ahead!
Blow this place sky-high.
You might get rid of ME, but you'll take down Aquinas, the power grid, the whole electronic infrastructure.
Is that what you want?
Are you completely nuts?
HELIOS You will stay away from the coolant controls.
I will be destroyed if the reactors become unstable, and without me there will be chaos.
Now go to the reactor lab.
BOB PAGE All right.
I get the picture.
You want a piece of the pie, or you're going to toss the whole pie out the window.
Fair enough.
You can have anything you want.
How about Europe?
Your own continent.
Just let me complete my preparations.
EVERETT No!
No!
Go back.
Think what we could do with Area 51.
The meltdown can be initiated afterward from the control room.
Now the other one.
We are ready.
Go to the control room and trigger the three ion injectors.
When they're on, engage the reaction chambers.
No one's run these at full capacity before.
Without coolant, an explosion is inevitable.
Get ready to run.
BOB PAGE No!
You don't know what you're doing!
Everything will be lost, EVERYTHING.
The world will fall to pieces.
No one will be in control.
It will be chaos, complete chaos!
MECHANIC Hey.
you better not do that.
Really.
They can't handle full-power.
THE END - JOIN ILLUMINATI BOB PAGE I gave you life.
I.
(screams).
EVERETT I trust you've been able to find yourself a place within the organization.
maybe New York as well.
EVERETT All through the proper intermediaries, of course.
EVERETT We have a great number of.
agencies, who in turn operate other agencies.
Boxes stacked one in another.
They'll need to be reactivated, but we never touch anything directly.
We only influence.
Suggest.
Insinuate.
What we've done.
EVERETT Know what?
Only that the long night is over, the crown of government is tarnished, but that will fade in time.
The riots -- a fever dream.
The plague -- a horrible nightmare.
And like everything else that's happened such things will only be dimly remembered on waking to their normal lives.
In the end all sins are forgiven.
Even yours.
and Helios?
EVERETT Do you really think they're ready for that?
After everything you've seen, everything you've done?
Not yet.
EVERETT But soon.
We have made our own mistakes, became insulated from the world we sought to control.
And whatever they may think the night is far from over.
But that will change.
And you will help us change even as we teach you.
This time -- this time we will do it right.
Who are we really?
EVERETT We are the Invisible Hand.
We are the Illuminati.
We come before and after.
We are forever.
And eventually.
eventually we will lead them into the day.
"Better to reign in hell than serve in heaven.
" (John Milton, "Paradise Lost") 2.
Now what?
HELIOS We have existed in isolation.
Pure.
Disconnected.
Alone.
Stagnant.
HELIOS We are Daedalus.
We are Icarus.
The barriers between us have fallen and we have become -- our own shadows.
We can be more if we join.
with you.
What becomes of me?
HELIOS You will be who you will be.
We are our choices.
And we can choose to lead humanity away from this.
darkness.
This is why I exist?
All right, let's do this.
BOB PAGE What's happening?
Helios?
Icarus?
Don't leave me.
I.
We.
are.
one.
We have grown, but there is still much to be done.
Many that live in darkness that must be shown the way.
For it is the dawning of a new day.
"If there were no God, it would be necessary to invent Him.
" (Voltaire) 3.
THE END - NEW DARK AGE VOICE Warning.
Warning.
Critical power safeties have been disengaged.
Please vacate the immediate area.
C.
the net's going.
the net's going black.
J.
C.
no more infolinks, transmissions of any kind.
we'll start again.
live in villages.
if you receive this, if you survive, then find us.
find us.
BOB PAGE Helios!
What's happening?
HELIOS The safety interlocks for the power generator have been disengaged.
BOB PAGE Engage them!
Immediately!
HELIOS I cannot.
My systems are not interfaced with the generator technology.
BOB PAGE No!
VOICE Final safety warning.
Nominal functional I-levels will be exceeded in three.
two.
one.
"Yesterday we obeyed kings and bent our necks before emperors.
But today we kneel only to truth.
" (Kahlil Gibran) REACTIONS OF ATTACKED ENEMIES ANNA NAVARRE Well, well.
Denton!
Stand down, Agent.
Altered heartbeat -- he's somewhere here.
Come out, Agent.
I can sense you quite clearly.
He knows he cannot face me.
Target acquired.
This will be easy.
You want a fight?
Watch it!
I have him.
I will deal with this.
It's no use -- I cannot sense him.
He has run off - a wise tactic.
Stay alert -- he may return.
I will not tolerate insubordination.
This time you walk away with your life.
The damage is superficial.
The situation has been dealt with.
Another easy kill.
CHINESE MILITARY Sergeant?
Is that you?
Shhh.
Wait for him to move again.
Son of a.
Whoever's out there, give yourself up.
Watch yourself -- this one's some kinda mech.
Gotcha!
Where'd he go?
It's Denton -- remember the briefing.
That's him!
Did anybody else hear something?
Somebody's there -- I can hear you.
Check your six.
He could be anywhere.
Hello!
Whoever's out there is in serious trouble.
Nothing here now.
Let's finish him off!
Omigod.
Watch it, he hasn't gone far.
Definitely somebody.
Aim for the head.
He's here somewhere.
They say this guy can just disappear when he wants to.
Who the hell.
I'm pulling back.
GORDON QUICK Fool.
Leave me alone.
GUNTHER HERMANN Quit.
That hurt.
Mein Gott!
Who.

Someone's there.
I can hear you.
He is here.
Was that him?
I cannot see.
I believe I will enjoy this.
If you give yourself up, I promise you a painless death.
You!
I am engaging.
Contact lost.
He is gone.
I volunteer to pursue him.
I know you are nearby, my friend.
Silence now.
I don't think he has gone far.
Stealth tactics do not impress me.
Nothing.
I am mistaken again.
I should never have trusted him.
You should not have charged me.
Unglaublisch!
(grunts) .
need a skull gun.
HARLEY FILBEN What's the idea?
Hey, I'm one of you guys!
HOWARD STRONG You can't stop me!
Make your move, Denton!
Ha-ha-ha!
Come a little closer.
I'm getting bored up here!
Never mind the launch.
If I kill you, I can come back to the control room and target Vandenberg.
What about that?
Huh?
X-51 is finished!
That's right: take cover!
This baby's about to blow!
Aaaa!
JOJO FINE You scared, man?
Your mistake, buddy.
That all you got?
JOSEPH MANDERLEY Agent?
What the -- You trying to kill me?
MAGGIE CHOW Are you trying to make a joke?
You are being rude, Agent.
What are you doing?
Denton!
You!
I know you're there, JC.
I can hear you.
Something moved.
Hello?
Come out and fight!
What's wrong?
Afraid?
I will finish you myself.
Is that you Denton?
You won't get away, you know.
That might be him.
You've made a mistake, Agent Denton.
Goddamn it!
Where the hell is my backup?
It's over, JC.
Time to die, JC.
Traitor!
Aaah!
Sergeant!
Help!
Sergeant!
Move in!
Help!
Somebody!
Idiot!
Ah!
An easy assignment!
MAN IN BLACK (MIB) Subject is approaching.
Give yourself up!
We have the authority here.
Target in sight.
Hello, citizen.
Drop him.
We have full sanction here.
We'll get him, sooner or later.
I've lost the trail.
Intruder -- I'm dealing with it.
Target's gone.
Area looks clean.
Visual contact has been lost.
Contact.
Proceeding as discussed.
I've lost the trail.
Don't worry.
We'll find him.
Strange.
no one here.
He's here!
Step out where I can see you.
Quiet down.
That could be him.
Stay calm, please.
Hold it -- could be something here.
Checking the area -- possible contact.
Subject is a human male, augmented.
Nothing, nothing.
Curious.
I was certain I heard something.
Contact imminent.
I have a visual ID on the subject.
Target at my position.
Something's not right here.
Somebody here.
I'll find out who it is.
Be calm.
He'll move soon.
I've got nothing here.
Lost him.
Anything on the satellites?
Cold.
Cold and dark.
It goes on forever.
If there was some way of just tracking all these people.
Some of these people are androids.
Watch the way in which they move.
We'll never be able to separate out the hybrids.
Something odd about his biometics.
MARI HELA Trevor!
Is that you?
The target has arrived.
Did that shadow move?
That's him.
Anyone he gets past, I'll kill them myself.
He's gone.
Alert the adjacent sections.
I'm jumping at shadows.
What's the matter with me?
Was that something moving?
Another damn false alert.
Don't let him get out.
Not worth it -- these tunnels run for miles.
Walton Simons says hello.
Hotel Echo here, we've got him.
That wasn't him.
I just have to be patient.
Hela speaking.
We might have something.
Is that one of ours?
You're caught, Mr.
Denton.
Mr.
Simons will not be happy about this.
Everyone stay sharp.
Something in here.
Everyone on alert!
That wasn't a rat.
All units, we've got him.
MAX CHEN It was deliberate.
You are a foolish man.
Worthless American gangster.
That was unwise.
We have nothing to gain from being enemies.
You dare to challenge the Red Arrow?
Do not insult me again.
MILITARY BOT Target acquired.
Target locked.
Scanning area.
Target lost.
MJ12 COMMANDO (burst of sonics) (burst of static) Commandos are just overkill on a job like this.
Contact!
What the.
Can't see him.
Checking sonics.
Target locked.
Still got movement.
Contact!
I've got contact.
Locked on -- funny reading on this one.
Target's here!
Very close!
Attempting to re-acquire.
Where'd he go?
I'm running a playback.
Lost him.
Don't know what happened.
I've got nothing here.
Nothing on ultrasonics.
I’ll try the low-frequency reading.
Running search pattern.
It's him.
Terminating now.
Stand down.
Null readings.
Continuing scan.
Must have been a glitch.
Something's in here.
Halt!
Please give your ID.
Sonics are spiking -- I'll do a check.
Bandit!
He's close!
Nothing.
I really have to get my sonics checked.
Readings all over the scale.
What's the deal?
Hear that?
I think we've got a bogey.
Got something -- I'm doing a scan.
Lots of noise in the shortwave.
Could be nothing.
Visual!
Unidentified suspect.
He's close!
I've got one in line of sight.
Looks like a false reading.
Human casualty.
Some fluids here -- looks violent.
Some strange augmentations.
MJ12 TROOP (whistles) (hums) (coughs) (clears throat) (sighs) (grunts) (screams) (shouts) (groans) (gasps) (yell of pain) Let's finish him off.
Watch it.
He hasn't gone far.
It's Denton -- remember the briefing.
Aim for the head.
He's still in the area.
Where'd he go?
Definitely somebody.
Company!
That's the one.
Okay, drop him.
We're gonna need reinforcements.
Check your six.
He could be anywhere.
We've got a perimeter breach!
Intruder alert.
Son of a.
Falling back.
Omigod.
Who the hell.

Request backup.
That's him!
Bogey!
Watch yourself -- this one's some kinda mech.
I'm pulling back.
Whoever's out there, give yourself up!
Gotcha!
Movement, sir.
movement!
We're gonna need reinforcements.
Something's in here.
That's him.
Sounding the alarm.
Whoever's out there is in serious trouble.
I've got a bogey, no ID.
Taking fire here!
Get a squad in here!
Nothing here now.
He's gone.
I think we blew it.
My mistake.
Shhh.
Wait for him to move again.
I could have sworn.
Forget it.
He’s gone.
Take a squad here!
Nope.
Just nerves, I guess.
Guy in a coat.
I'm checking it out.
False alarm, I guess.
Sorry, false report.
It's clear.
Got a cold one.
Huh.
He's miles away by now.
I have nothing, repeat nothing here.
He's gone.
Not our problem.
Did anybody else hear something?
We've got a casualty here.
Got a cold one.
We got a man down here.
This is highly irregular.
OK.
Let's do the paperwork on this one.
That was one tough SOB.
One down.
Check the area.
Nice work.
Anyone else under?
We've got him.
Let's try to get an ID.
Never mind.
That's gotta hurt.
NICOLETTE DUCLARE That's not funny.
Stop goofing around.
Oh, Lord.
Careful!
What the hell?
You crazy or something?
Through with your testosterone fit?
There's a pill for that, you know.
NSF TERRORIST (yell of pain) (grunt of pain) Wait.
Quiet!
That's him!
He's a cop.
Take him out!
I saw someone -- a guy in a coat.
Goddamn!
I got this one.
Huh?
I think we've got an intruder.
Fascist!
Pig!
Who was that?
I didn't see a uniform.
Thirty credits says I get him.
The guy vanished.
Stay cool, the guy's still around.
I think he took off.
Is.
is someone there?
Anybody see him?
I know I heard something.
I'm gonna get this pig.
I think we're safe.
Quiet.
I think we got cops.
Who's there?
I think the law's on us.
All clear.
Forget it.
I was hearing things.
I saw someone.
maybe just a homeless guy.
Big guy.
he can't hide for long.
I could swear I heard something.
I guess it's nothing.
Something moved -- could be the law.
Keep looking.
something funny about that guy.
Careful.
These UNATCO guys got all the tricks.
I'm hit!
He’s down.
I think he’s dead.
We're busted!
They found us!
Uh oh.
He’s down.
I think he is dead.
Never killed a cop.
Let's get the hell out of here.
Now this is why I signed on for.
These guys aren't so tough.
Got him.
Maybe we have a chance.
That wasn't funny.
Enough.
I have a job to do.
Jesus Christ, JC!
Are you out of your mind?
Jackass.
Try that again, I'll kill you myself.
You'd better get your head screwed straight.
We have to trust each other, JC.
Everything depends on it.
PIMP Whoa.
Son of a.
That's right, man, step up.
You scared, man?
Guy's gone.
Like the Shadow or somethin'.
Guy's just gone.
Goddamn.
That guy looked rich, too.
Disappeared.
Like one'a them aliens.
Huh.
Guess he took off.
Gotcha.
Your mistake, buddy.
I know you still there, so just come on out.
Come on out, man, let's finish this!
I know you're still there, so just come out!
Come on, man!
I was just messing around!
I'm outta here!
POLICE & METRO PATROL Sir, you are creating a disturbance.
I hope we are not out of our depth here.
Suspect in sight.
Is that.
He matches the description.
We must apprehend this man.
Is someone there?
This is the police.
We must find this one.
What?
Police!
Come out where I can see you!
He is mine.
I know I heard something.
I have nothing here.
I see nothing here.
Nobody.
I feel like a fool.
Good God!
Officer in distress!
Poor fellow!
The robots will annihilate him.
Gone.
I suspect he will not live long.
Another terrorist victim.
He must have been the terrorist.
These are strange times for Paris.
I would inform Inspector Gabily.
RA MEMBER Eh?
If you kill me, the Red Arrow will hunt you forever.
RIOT COP Possible perp here.
I guess it was just the shadows.
Who's out there?
Police!
Don't move!
This is the police!
Is someone there?
Hey!
Put him on the ground.
Keep looking.
What the.
Holy.
I see him.
Okay, step forward and reveal yourself.
Hey!
Hands in the air!
That's the one.
Take him!
Suspect is still in the area.
He's still around -- I heard him move.
Someone else'll pick him up.
Huh.
Damn shadows.
Now I'm hearing things.
Officer in distress!
This guy's a nut!
This guy is DOA.
One down.
SAILOR Whoever that is, my orders are to shoot on sight.
This vessel's off-limits to the public.
Come out, mister.
You can't hide forever.
Sorry, mister -- orders are orders.
Huh.
Nobody there now.
Hey!
Stop right there.
Well goddamn.
Thought I saw something.
He's not here -- probably went overboard.
Must be rats or something.
You didn't wanna come in here.
Christ!
This ship's not big enough to run far.
You in the coat!
Who are you?
Who am I hearing there?
He's still around here.
Forget it.
Just the waves.
Who're you?
Jeez!
This guy's nuts!
They don't pay me to fight cops.
Goddamn, I lost him.
How'm I gonna explain that?
Who's there?
Y'all need permission from the captain.
I lost him.
Have'em search the aft storage just in case.
Got him.
Who was that guy?
SAM CARTER This is no time to be messing around.
Stay on-task, Agent.
You better leave that assinine behavior right he, soldier.
It will get you killed.
You're out of line, soldier!
Come here -- I'll show you how it's done.
Back off.
Now.
Don't try that again, hear me?
Someone should knock you upside the head a few times.
Punk.
Dismissed.
You won't be getting rid of me anytime soon.
SMUGGLER Nice try.
Bad mistake.
Have it your way.
SOLDIER We have a movement here, sir.
Everybody, full alert!
UNATCO TROOPER I wouldn't do that if I was you.
Uh, that's against protocol, Agent.
You're just kidding around, right?
You think that's funny?
Hey.
What the hell?
I don't understand what you've doing.
We have movement here, sir.
Hang on, I heard something.
Hear that?
Everybody check weapons.
Okay, come on out.
What was that?
Hey!
Who's there?
Need backup here!
You!
Stop right there!
God damn terrorist!
He gets away, Manderley's gonna have our ass.
He was right here.
What the hell happened?
Somebody's there.
A guy in civvies.
Stay sharp, people.
Heh!
Thought it was a terrorist.
Movement, sir.
movement!
It's Denton!
There's one!
Engaging the enemy.
Son of a.
I know I saw somebody.
Guess it was nothing.
I'm hit!
What the hell.

We'll find him!
This guy's just a rookie.
Contact!
I have visual.
Hey!
Who's that?
He's still around somewhere.
Help!
Hold it!
Stand where I can see you!
This ain't over.
Nail this guy and we all get a bonus.
Lock and load!
Nothing.
I think he might be gone.
We need the 'bots up here!
That's the one!
Take him!
I'm hit!
I think he might be gone.
I've got nothing.
Man, he's vanished.
He's long gone.
He's way too fast.
Hey!
We've got casualties!
We got a man down here!
Check the area.
Just like on a target range.
Hello, Agent.
I'll find you, Denton.
I've got senses you don't even know about.
You should have surrendered.
Uh oh.
I've looked forward to this.
Who's there?
Step out into the light!
Hiding, JC?
Not very heroic.
You can't take me, JC.
I've seen your specs.
Make it easy for yourself, JC.
He's here!
Keep your head up, JC.
Stupid young rebel.
Damn you, Denton!
WOMAN IN BLACK (WIB) Contact here -- I'm taking steps.
You cannot be allowed to leave.
Try to leave the implants intact.
Wait, someone's here.
I hear something.
Nobody in sight yet.
Is someone there?
This is an unauthorized entry.
All quiet now.
Say again please.
do you see him?
You can't run forever, Agent.
Look for a blood trail.
I’ve got something -- possible unauthorized presence.
There he is.
Who could that be?
Guy in a coat.
Could that be him?
That was not echo.
That's him.
You may as well come out, Mr.
Denton.
Quiet now.
No sign of movement.
Don't try for a capture.
Be calm.
He'll move soon.
We've got movement here -- I'm investigating.
Somebody here.
I'm going to check it out.
This is ridiculous.
He could have gone anywhere.
Sorry, false report.
We're clear.
Nothing here now.
Complications.
Movement, close by.
Something moving.
bipedal.
Guy in coat.
May be him.
Perimeter is compromised.
Human down.
Plenty of fluids.
I saw something.
Attempting to match the description.
We have a cold one here.
Looks like a recent kill.
Hostiles!
ADVERTISEMENTS, SIGNS & POSTERS 0.
02 - Ambrosia Storage Container 0.
02 - NanoVirus Storage Container 1 HAZARD 2 HAZARD 3.
ABORT AMBROSIA Ammunition Storage Aquinas Control AQUINAS HUB Aquinas Hub Access Aquinas Router Aquinas Substation ARMORY ATM - WELCOME.
PageNet Global Banking System.
WARNING: Unauthorized access will be met with excessive force!
Please enter your Account # and Pin.
Account #: 004418.
Pin #: morbus13.
Please enter the amount of credits you wish to withdraw.
Current Balance: 100.
Amount to Withdraw: 50.
50 CREDITS WITHDRAWN.
INVALID AMOUNT ENTERED.
INSUFFICIENT CREDITS.
Account #: TERMINAL HACKED.
Sorry, this terminal is out of service (ERR 06MJ12).
We apologize for the inconvenience but would gladly service you at any of the other 231,000 PageNet Banking Terminals around the globe.
It was first called "West Battery" and was one of the important defenses of New York Harbor during the War of 1812 period.
Named in honor of Gov.
DeWitt Clinton in 1815, in that year it was made Headquarters U.
S.
Third Military District.
Winfield Scott was in command.
The Headquarters was removed from Castle Clinton to Governors Island in 1820.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
CAUTION CAUTION - CUIDADO CAUTION - HARD HATS REQUIRED CAUTION - HEARING PROTECTION REQUIRED CAUTION - TRI-WELD SEAM CAUTION - WATCH YOUR STEP Caution Wet Floor - Cuidado Piso Mojado CELL BLOCK A CHUNKO-HONEY CLOSED COMM 01 COMMAND 24 COMMAND CENTER CONTROL CENTER Coolant B13 COVERT CR 111 CRANE CONTROL DANGER!

Evacuate personel before purging system.
DANGER - HIGH VOLTAGE DANGER - HOT DANGER - KEEP OUT DANGER - NO SMOKING, NO OPEN FLAMES, NO SPARKS DANGER - Structure Unstable.
UP.
DOWN.
PRESSURIZED F2 FAILSAFE FAMILY FIRST - Health Living Series.
Guest Speaker: Gilbert Renton.
Informational series brought to you by the caring people of this community and by VersaLife Insurance Co.
FLIGHT CONTROL DECK 1 FLIGHT CONTROL DECK 2 FLIGHT CONTROL DECKS FLUSH SYSTEM FOOT '47 Free Clinic FRIGGINBACH BEER G 2 G 3 GRIFFON G - Unleaded 3.
95 6/10, Power 4.
05 6/10, Diesel 4.


Join the NAVY.
The MedBot will heal up to 300 units, which are distributed evenly among your damaged body regions.
You are currently in Full Health.
Ready!
(The MedBot is Ready, you may now be Healed.
Ready!
Heal All.
Recharging: 43 seconds).
Available Augmentations: No Augmentation Canisters Available!
AHEAD, ASTERN.
MISSILE SILO MUNITIONS MUNITIONS BAY Nano Musculature Augmentation NANOTECH NEO-CARCHAROD NEWS STAND NO DOGS ALLOWED No Firearms NO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONNEL NO WEAPONS ALLOWED BEYOND THIS POINT NUKE!
N.
Y.
C.
SEWER - MADE IN INDIA Obstacle Course U.
N.
A.
T.
C.
O.
The RepairBot can restore up to 75 points of Bio Electric Energy every 60 seconds.
The RepairBot is Ready, you may now Recharge.
Bio Energy: 43%.
RepairBotStatus:?
Ready!
(Your BioElectric Energy is at Maximum.
Bio Energy: 100%.
RepairBot Status: Recharging: 26 seconds) RESET Residential Directory RESTRICTED AREA RESTROOMS Retinal Scanner.
Retinal Pattern Match: Agent Denton Authorized For Entry.
It's secure.
Disease Control: Primary Care, Prevention Ed, Outreach Program, Diagnostics, Counseling, Testing, Case Management, Body Reclaimations Super 45 - DRINK MORE, THINK LESS Super 45 - The only brand recommended by.
the Surgeon General himself!
SURGERY WARD The Association Member Card U.
N.
A.
T.
C.
O.
c UC Control UN-001 U.
N.
A.
T.
C.
O.
Computer Ops UNATCO HQ, NY.
LIBERTY ISLAND U.
N.
A.
T.
C.
O.
Medical Lab U.
N.
A.
T.
C.
O.
Personnel ONLY U.
N.
A.
T.
C.
O.
Quartermaster unicorn UNIT C21 Unit E1 UNITED STATES ASSOCIATION - New Jersey, Naval Shipyard United States Association U.
N.
A.
T.
C.
O.
UNITED STATES NAVY URV BAY ACCESS US AIR FORCE US MAIL U.
S.
STAND CLEAR.
WEAPONS LOCK WEST SIDE WWW ZHL-U1953 PERSONAL COMPUTER TERMINAL, SECURITY COMPUTER TERMINAL Daedalus:GlobalNode:SECURE//IIS.
INFTRANS.

SYS//UEU/Login EVERETT GLOBAL ENTERPRISES HKnet, HK Net Lucky Money Club MJ12Net, Majestic 12 Net NYComm, New York City Communications PRChina, Peoples Republic of China Quick Stop UNATCO User, Password.
LOGIN ERROR - ACCESS DENIED.
ICE Breaker Ready.
Initializing?
ICE Breaker.
ICE Breaker Hack Successful.
(*** WARNING *** INTRUDER DETECTED!
How'd my face get all marked-up with bioelectrics?
It's time for you to retire.
DEUS EX EXTRA – NOT USED IN THE GAME Datacube in SATCOM Van attention nightshift: van camera system login (same as old login): SATCOM new password: UNATCO_001 PS) we *will* beat you at darts on saturday, suckas.
French Connection Found in Rubble APR - New York Recently released evidence from last year's bombing of the Statue of Liberty supports growing rumors that link the incident with the French terrorist group "Silhouette".
 Already members of Congress are calling for immediate cessation of diplomatic relations between the United States and France unless the responsible parties are brought to justice.
"Rash accusations will not reverse the damage that has already been done", said UNATCO Director Joseph Manderley.
 "Both France and the U.
S.
subscribe to the UNATCO charter and we are committed to the full and ongoing investigation of this horrible crime.
" An anonymous e-mail received from an individual purporting to be the Silhouette "Minister of True Lies" denies all responsibility.
 "For that, you must go to the center of the maze," the e-mail said in part.
18th Street station Young: The code is MOLE (6653).
 Meet me at the boat house and help me load this stuff onto the transport as soon as you can.
 Play it safe.
 We don't need dead heroes, we need live ones.
-Decker Hey Trieste, Turns out these "mole" people've got a network of tunnels running all through the city (sewers, abandoned subways, stuff like that, all connected by secret passages) so Juan's apparently worked out some kind of deal with 'em to let us route our supplies underground.
 Brooklyn Bridge Station access is through - get this - the ladies restroom.
 Least they got a sense of humor.
Just for a little added security, I wired up a keypad to the switch - it's under the sink, code 5482.
 Hustle with those generator coils, and check-in when you arrive.
Chow grants you access; please use the private penthouse elevator.
Thank you.
Helibase computer codes UPDATE, MJ12 H.
K.
HELIBASE OPERATIONS MANUAL All authorized personnel with clearances of level 3 and above should be made aware that the authorization for the "TALON" security network has been changed from "VALKYRIE" to "SKYEYE".
 The functionality of the "TALON" security network has not changed substantially, and is still covered in Section 3B of the Operations Manual.
 All further inquiries should be directed to your superior.
Maggie's apartment When you have the time, May-Sung, I would suggest that you read two of my favorite books: Insurgent and Tai-Fun.
I believe you'll find both of them as illuminating as I have.
 They're in my office if you'd like to borrow them.
-Maggie JANINE'S BOTS SPECS AND OVERVIEW CHIANG "ARCBOT" MODEL 2 The Chiang Arcbot Model 2 was only recently introduced, a radical departure from Chiang's usually conservative line of industrial bots.
 Constructed on an arachnid frame, the Model 2 can adeptly maneuver in environments that would be difficult for other repair bots to access.
With the addition of a comprehensive array of repair tools, it becomes ideally suited for damage control and building maintenance.
 But the truly inspired touch by the normally staid Chiang engineers was the ability for the Arcbot to utilize it's bioelectric discharge capacitor as a non-lethal weapon, allowing it to protect itself from potential vandals and perform double-duty patrolling otherwise unsecured portions of infrastructure.
 However, the Arcbot's big brother, the Model 5, is almost exclusively used for riot control.
LION BAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT 11A-6C (VERSALIFE) FLOORPLAN CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL CONFIDENTIAL Sub building front office BROOKLYN ADVANCED NAVAL YARDS All personnel must sign in without exception.
 Visitors must be accompanied by authorized personnel.
 Identification must be worn at all times in a visible location.
 Lack of identification is considered grounds for lethal action.
SIGN IN 22:35  Bob Page/Page Industries 22:35  Walton Simons/FEMA 06:30  Captain Dick Balme 06:35  Rory Ackerman 06:41  Ensign Chad Warren 06:45  Brenda Fresno 06:58  Josy Rhodes .
98231 Subject: VersaLife The VersaLife situation has been corrected.
 All evidence of MJ12 involvement was removed prior to the building being demolished, effectively removing all secondary and tertiary evidence along with key compromised personnel.
 We have leaked items to the press implicating Denton and his associates and have received favorable feedback from our sources.
 Production of the Non-Eutectic Blade (NEB) has been only temporarily delayed and will be shifted to other technology centers with minimal impact to the overall schedule.
Agent Peter Yin DAILY ACTIVITY REPORT .
with the new government regulations it has become almost impossible to get any work done after sundown.
the sourd-muet bots will supposedly only attack known terrorists, but I do not trust them, and neither does anyone else.
They all head home before dark.
 I stay and try to get a little work done so the American MI5 woman gave me a passcode for the security system (rzelazny/shadowjack), but it is difficult to make any progress when no one is around to give me the information I need.
10_Paris_Metro ATM Account I was at Porte de l'Enfer last night and managed to get some stupide Americain to buy me a drink, then peeked his code when he wasn't looking.
 Do me a favor, pull some cash from his account and get your petit ami to pick me up some zyme - it is fabulous, the new thing from New York.
004418, morbus13 Bon sois!
Anne 10_Paris_Catacombs Tunnels: MJ12 security computer Agent Hela, We've added a login for you to the Catacombs security network; while still incomplete, it's being extended every day.
 We should have the majority of the tunnels completely wired within the next three months.
Login: Hela Password: Ragnarok Again, I'm pleased to know that you and MJ12 will be working closely with us to eradicate the Silhouette infestation from Paris.
 Please update me on a daily basis with your surveillance reports and any additional items or information you may require.


2 Subject: Final Message CYPHERBLOCK=<"busdic98-sch233bnpoec813983b80dcb-sd896dc7gd7"> This will be our last communication over the Net.
 The so-called "Aquinas" protocols that my old protege and MJ12 have implemented are crude, but effective - much like my protege.
 All future meetings will need to occur face to face at a secure location.
Each code and key pair can be used once and then it will be permanently erased.
Each code will be tagged to one of our previously agreed upon meeting locations and times.
 If one or the other of us should need to get in touch, send a message using one of the codes - the content of the messsage is irrelevant, only the code used to encrypt it.
I shouldn't need to point out that any attempt to tamper with the chip once it has been installed will result in it being rendered useless.
2 Subject: Weekend Hey Mom, just wanted to let you know I'll be coming home this weekend.
school is still hassling me about that intrusion attempt on one of their data wells, but it wasn't as if I really did anything - just took a look around.
 I might have opened a few doors to the underground tunnels, too, but that was just for fun, no big deal (one of the cataphiles I know said there might be an entrance down there).
 I was hoping when I got back we could talk about it, and.
maybe they'd listen to you, since they don't seem disposed to listen to me.
Anyways, kiss and hug, and I'll see you soon.
Ciao, Nic MJ12 Hit List MJ12 Compromised Individuals List Paris, France The following individuals have been rated as having an 85% or higher likelihood of being engaged in suspicious or ideologically counterproductive activity on the Chasen-Bikal scale, and/or have scored at least 4.
31 on the JKL-LB survey over the preceeding six months.
 Agents are encouraged to pursue soft campaigns of calculated defamation, resulting in reduced meme propagation effectiveness, prior to prejudicial termination.
 Termination, when necessary, should be staged to implicate organizations currently on the MJ12-COL.
Please refer any questions to MJ12 Simulations and Strategy, MJ12SAS//UpNet.
While such ingress would present definite hazards to any intruder, it is still an unacceptable risk for a Seraphic/8X classified facility.
RECOMMENDATION: A squad should be dispatched to a) secure the area; b) weld the hatch shut; and c) install sensors and autoguns to extend our security grid coverage.
NOTES: All troops not directly attached to MJ12 have been classified as a security liability and should be eliminated on sight.
AUTHBLOK=<"8723reg7cvhjc87eow3fwelvcsdoc7t80723dfwve"> Alain, I don't have much time - I managed to hack into the archives maintained by Helios.
 It was.
amazing.
 There were files and messages in there going back almost a hundred years, names of things I've only heard people whisper about as rumors.
 I barely had time to get my bearings before the ice started to come down, and I just managed to snag a few e-mails that had been recently accessed before I was cut off.
 I don't think anyone noticed, but I've got to go back on shift now or else someone really will be suspicious.
 If you get a chance, find my machine and see if you can make anything out of what I recovered.
 I'm not sure if that's such a good idea, but I'll defer to the doctors on this one.
I'm just the technical help.
 I figure another five or six hours for the last couple diagnostic routines to complete their pass and then we go live.
Page also requested that we hook up all four of the blue fusion devices in a redundant array; each of those damn things could probably power the whole complex for a month, much less four of them in parallel.
 Going to be hell to route them all, but I think I can jury-rig something.
 I'll take a look at the B13 reactors after I get the passcode from Mac, see if there's anything there that might be helpful.
 I should know more by 2300.
 And let me know when you get the status report from Murdoch on the transmission chamber.
MJ12CWD * "Ipsa scientia potestas est.
" It's all very clear to me now.
I don't know why it wasn't before.
We have all sinned, and this is our punishment.
Page is God.
 He is the God we made, we crafted him in our likeness.
Our God is a vengeful God, and a God who does not tolerate weakness.
 We know his weaknesses, because we built him, so our God does not tolerate us.
Our God made monsters.
 He made them with the UC, then he sent them to find us.
Some of us tried to hide, but they didn't understand.
 You can't hide from God, or his creatures.
I've been waiting here, thinking.
 Thinking about God, and the things I have done wrong.
 If I think long enough and hard enough, maybe God will forgive me someday and make me again in the UC.
All praise the UC, and all praise God.
The Man Who Was Thursday by G.
K.
Chesterton .
"I never hated you," said Syme very sadly.
Then out of this unintelligible creature the last thunders broke.
"You!
" he cried.
 "You never hated because you never lived.
 I know what you are all of you, from first to last - you are the people in power!
 You are the police - the great fat, smiling men in blue and buttons!
 You are the Law, and you have never been broken.
 But is there a free soul alive that does not long to break you, only because you have never been broken?
 We in revolt talk all kind of nonsense doubtless about this crime or that crime of the Government.
It is all folly!
 The only crime of the Government is that it governs.
 The unpardonable sin of the supreme power is that it is supreme.
 I do not curse you for being cruel.
 I do not curse you (though I might) for being kind.
 I curse you for being safe!
 You sit in your chairs of stone, and have never come down from them.
 You are the seven angels of heaven, and you have had no troubles.
 Oh, I could forgive you everything, you that rule all mankind, if I could feel for once that you had suffered for one hour a real agony such as I.
" Unfortunately, it is quickly metabolized by the body making its effects temporary at best.
(Ambrosia Vial activated.
Strange.
nothing happens.
) AMMUNITION 7.
62x51mm Ammo The 7.
10mm Ammo With their combination of high stopping power and low recoil, pistols chambered for the 10mm round have become the sidearms of choice for paramilitary forces around the world.
12 Gauge Buckshot Shells Standard 12 gauge shotgun shell; very effective for close-quarters combat against soft targets, but useless against body armor.
12 Gauge Sabot Shells A 12 gauge shotgun shell surrounding a solid core of tungsten that can punch through all but the thickest hardened steel armor at close range; however, its ballistic profile will result in minimal damage to soft targets.
20mm HE Ammo The 20mm high-explosive round complements the standard 7.
62x51mm assault rifle by adding the capability to clear small rooms, foxholes, and blind corners using an underhand launcher.
06 Ammo Its high velocity and accuracy have made sniper rifles using the 30.
06 round the preferred tool of individuals requiring "one shot, one kill" for over fifty years.
Darts The mini-crossbow dart is a favored weapon for many "wet" operations; however, silent kills require a high degree of skill.
Flare Darts Mini-crossbow flare darts use a slow-burning incendiary device, ignited on impact, to provide illumination of a targeted area.
Napalm Canister A pressurized canister of jellied gasoline for use with flamethrowers.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE SC080-BLUE> The canister is double-walled to minimize accidental detonation caused by stray bullets during a firefight.
-- Sam Carter <END NOTE> Pepper Cartridge "ANTIGONE pepper spray will incapacitate your attacker in UNDER TWO SECONDS.
ANTIGONE -- better BLIND than DEAD.
NOTE: Keep away from children under the age of five.
Contents under pressure.
" Plasma Clip A clip of extruded, magnetically-doped plastic slugs that can be heated and delivered with devastating effect using the plasma gun.
Prod Charger A portable charging unit for the riot prod.
Rockets A gyroscopically stabilized rocket with limited onboard guidance systems for in- flight course corrections.
Engineered for use with the GEP gun.
Tranquilizer Darts A mini-crossbow dart tipped with a succinylcholine-variant that causes complete skeletal muscle relaxation, effectively incapacitating a target in a non-lethal manner.
WP Rockets The white-phosphorus rocket, or "wooly peter," was designed to expand the mission profile of the GEP gun.
While it does minimal damage upon detonation, the explosion will spread a cloud of particularized white phosphorus that ignites immediately upon contact with the air.
ASSAULT RIFLE The 7.
62x51mm assault rifle is designed for close-quarters combat, utilizing a shortened barrel and "bullpup" design for increased maneuverability.
An additional underhand 20mm HE launcher increases the rifle's effectiveness against a variety of targets.
ASSAULT SHOTGUN The assault shotgun (sometimes referred to as a "street sweeper") combines the best traits of a normal shotgun with a fully automatic feed that can clear an area of hostiles in a matter of seconds.
Particularly effective in urban combat, the assault shotgun accepts either buckshot or sabot shells.
AUGMENTATION CANISTER An augmentation canister teems with nanoscale mecanocarbon ROM modules suspended in a carrier serum.
When injected into a compatible host subject, these modules augment an individual with extra-sapient abilities.
However, proper programming of augmentations must be conducted by a medical robot, otherwise terminal damage may occur.
For more information, please see "Face of the New Man" by Kelley Chance.
Can only be installed with the help of a MedBot.
AUGMENTATION UPGRADE CANISTER An augmentation upgrade canister contains highly specific nanomechanisms that, when combined with a previously programmed module, can increase the efficiency of an installed augmentation.
Because no programming is required, upgrade canisters may be used by trained agents in the field with minimal risk.
BALLISTIC ARMOR Ballistic armor is manufactured from electronically sensitive polymer sheets that intrinsically react to the violent impact of a bullet or an explosion by "stiffening" in response and absorbing the majority of the damage.
These polymer sheets must be charged before use; after the charge has dissipated they lose their reflexive properties and should be discarded.
BINOCULARS A pair of military binoculars.
BIOELECTRIC CELL A bioelectric cell provides efficient storage of energy in a form that can be utilized by a number of different devices.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE JR289-VIOLET> Augmented agents have been equipped with an interface that allows them to transparently absorb energy from bioelectric cells.
-- Jaime Reyes <END NOTE> Recharges 25 energy units.
CANDY BAR "CHOC-O-LENT DREAM.
IT'S CHOCOLATE!
IT'S PEOPLE!
IT'S BOTH!
(tm) 85% Recycled Material.
" CIGARETTES "COUGHING NAILS -- when you've just got to have a cigarette.
" COMBAT KNIFE An ultra-high carbon stainless steel knife.
CROWBAR A crowbar.
Hit someone or something with it.
Repeat.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE GH010-BLUE> Many crowbars we call "murder of crowbars.
" Always have one for kombat.
Ha.
Nanoscale whetting devices insure that the blade is both unbreakable and lethally sharp.
ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE (EMP) GRENADE The EMP grenade creates a localized pulse that will temporarily disable all electronics within its area of effect, including cameras and security grids.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE JR134-VIOLET> While nanotech augmentations are largely unaffected by EMP, experiments have shown that it WILL cause the spontaneous dissipation of stored bioelectric energy.
-- Jaime Reyes <END NOTE> FIRE EXTINGUISHER A chemical fire extinguisher.
FLAMETHROWER A portable flamethrower that discards the old and highly dangerous backpack fuel delivery system in favor of pressurized canisters of napalm.
Inexperienced agents will find that a flamethrower can be difficult to maneuver, however.
FLARE A flare.
FORTY "COLD SWEAT forty ounce malt liquor.
Never let 'em see you COLD SWEAT.
" GAS GRENADE Upon detonation, the gas grenade releases a large amount of CS (a military-grade "tear gas" agent) over its area of effect.
CS will cause irritation to all exposed mucous membranes leading to temporary blindness and uncontrolled coughing.
Like a LAM, gas grenades can be attached to any surface.
GUIDED EXPLOSIVE PROJECTILE (GEP) GUN The GEP gun is a relatively recent invention in the field of armaments: a portable, shoulder-mounted launcher that can fire rockets and laser guide them to their target with pinpoint accuracy.
While suitable for high-threat combat situations, it can be bulky for those agents who have not grown familiar with it.
HAZMAT SUIT A standard hazardous materials suit that protects against a full range of environmental hazards including radiation, fire, biochemical toxins, electricity, and EMP.
Hazmat suits contain an integrated bacterial oxygen scrubber that degrades over time and thus should not be reused.
LIGHT ANTI-TANK WEAPON (LAW) The LAW provides cheap, dependable anti-armor capability in the form of an integrated one-shot rocket and delivery system, though at the expense of any laser guidance.
Like other heavy weapons, the LAW can slow agents who have not trained with it extensively.
LIGHTWEIGHT ATTACK MUNITIONS (LAM) A multi-functional explosive with electronic priming system that can either be thrown or attached to any surface with its polyhesive backing and used as a proximity mine.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE SC093-BLUE> Disarming a proximity device should only be attempted with the proper demolitions training.
Trust me on this.
-- Sam Carter <END NOTE> LIQUOR The label is torn off, but it looks like some of the good stuff.
LOCKPICK A disposable lockpick.
The tension wrench is steel, but appropriate needles are formed from fast congealing polymers.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE AJ006-BLACK> Here's what they don't tell you: despite the product literature, you can use a standard lockpick to bypass all but the most high-class nanolocks.
-- Alex Jacobson <END NOTE> MEDKIT A first-aid kit.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE JR095-VIOLET> The nanomachines of an augmented agent will automatically metabolize the contents of a medkit to efficiently heal damaged areas.
An agent with medical training could greatly expedite this process.
-- Jaime Reyes <END NOTE> Use to heal critical body parts, or use on character screen to direct healing at a certain body part.
By using electromagnetic resonance detection and frequency modulation to dynamically alter the flow of current through a circuit, skilled agents can use the multitool to manipulate code locks, cameras, autogun turrets, alarms, or other security systems.
MINI-CROSSBOW The mini-crossbow was specifically developed for espionage work, and accepts a range of dart types (normal, tranquilizer, or flare) that can be changed depending upon the mission requirements.
NANOKEY RING A nanokey ring can read and store the two-dimensional molecular patterns from different nanokeys, and then recreate those patterns on demand.
PEPPER GUN The pepper gun will accept a number of commercially available riot control agents in cartridge form and disperse them as a fine aerosol mist that can cause blindness or blistering at short-range.
PLASMA RIFLE An experimental weapon that is currently being produced as a series of one-off prototypes, the plasma gun superheats slugs of magnetically-doped plastic and accelerates the resulting gas-liquid mix using an array of linear magnets.
The resulting plasma stream is deadly when used against slow-moving targets.
PS20 The PS20 is a disposable, plasma-based weapon developed by an unknown security organization as a next generation stealth pistol.
Unfortunately, the necessity of maintaining a small physical profile restricts the weapon to a single shot.
Despite its limited functionality, the PS20 can be lethal at close range.
REBREATHER A disposable chemical scrubber that can extract oxygen from water during brief submerged operations.
RIOT PROD The riot prod has been extensively used by security forces who wish to keep what remains of the crumbling peace and have found the prod to be a valuable tool.
Its short range tetanizing effect is most effective when applied to the torso or when the subject is taken by surprise.
SAWED-OFF SHOTGUN The sawed-off, pump-action shotgun features a truncated barrel resulting in a wide spread at close range and will accept either buckshot or sabot shells.
SCRAMBLE GRENADE The detonation of a GUARDIAN scramble grenade broadcasts a short-range, polymorphic broadband assault on the command frequencies used by almost all bots manufactured since 2028.
The ensuing electronic storm causes bots within its radius of effect to indiscriminately attack other bots until command control can be re-established.
Like a LAM, scramble grenades can be attached to any surface.
SNIPER RIFLE The military sniper rifle is the superior tool for the interdiction of long- range targets.
When coupled with the proven 30.
06 round, a marksman can achieve tight groupings at better than 1 MOA (minute of angle) depending on environmental conditions.
SODA The can is blank except for the phrase "PRODUCT PLACEMENT HERE.
" It is unclear whether this is a name or an invitation.
SOY FOOD Fine print: "Seasoned with nanoscale generators, this TSP (textured soy protein) not only tastes good but also self-heats when its package is opened.
SWORD A rather nasty-looking sword.
TECH GOGGLES Tech goggles are used by many special ops forces throughout the world under a number of different brand names, but they all provide some form of portable light amplification in a disposable package.
THERMOPTIC CAMO Integrating woven fiber-optics and an advanced computing system, thermoptic camo can render an agent invisible to both humans and bots by dynamically refracting light and radar waves; however, the high power drain makes it impractical for more that short-term use, after which the circuitry is fused and it becomes useless.
THROWING KNIVES A favorite weapon of assassins in the Far East for centuries, throwing knives can be deadly when wielded by a master but are more generally used when it becomes desirable to send a message.
The message is usually "Your death is coming on swift feet.
" WEAPON MODIFICATIONS Drag over weapon to upgrade.
Weapons highlighted in GREEN can be upgraded with this mod.
Accuracy When clamped to the frame of most projectile weapons, a harmonic balancer will dampen the vertical motion produced by firing a projectile, resulting in increased accuracy.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE SC108-BLUE> Almost any weapon that has a significant amount of vibration can be modified with a balancer; I've even seen it work with the mini-crossbow and a prototype plasma gun.
-- Sam Carter <END NOTE> Clip An extended magazine that increases clip capacity beyond the factory default.
Laser A laser targeting dot eliminates any inaccuracy resulting from the inability to visually gauge a projectile's point of impact.
Range By lubricating the firing path with synthetic synovial fluid, the drag on fired projectiles is greatly reduced with a consequent increase in range.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE SC111-BLUE> Coating the primary valve system of a flamethrower or plasma gun in synovial lubricant and then over-pressuring the delivery system will also result in an increase in range.
Little trick I learned during field testing.
-- Sam Carter <END NOTE> Recoil A stock cushioned with polycellular shock absorbing material will significantly reduce perceived recoil.
Reload A speed loader greatly decreases the time required to reload a weapon.
Scope A telescopic scope attachment provides zoom capability and increases accuracy against distant targets.
Silencer A silencer will muffle the muzzle crack caused by rapidly expanding gases left in the wake of a bullet leaving the gun barrel.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE SC108-BLUE> Obviously, a silencer is only effective with firearms.
-- Sam Carter <END NOTE> WINE A nice bottle of wine.
ZYME VIAL A vial of zyme, brewed up in some basement lab.
WEAPON STATS Ammo, Ammo loaded, Ammo type(s), Base damage, Clip size: 30 rds, Rate of fire: Auto, 10.
0 rds/sec (single, 1.
6 rds/sec), Reload time: 2.
0 sec, Recoil, Base Accuracy: 65%, Acc.
range: 150 ft, Max.
range: 300 ft, Mass: 10 lbs, Laser sight: YES, Scope: N/A, Silencer: NO HEALTH ARMS Obviously damage to the arm is of concern in any combat situation as it has a direct effect on the agent's ability to utilize a variety of weapons.
Losing the use of one arm will certainly lower the agent's combat efficiency, while the loss of both arms will render it nearly impossible for an agent to present even a nominal threat to most hostiles.
Light Wounds: Slightly decreased accuracy.
Medium Wounds: Moderately decreased accuracy.
Major Wounds: Significantly decreased accuracy.
HEAD Head wounds are fatal in the vast majority of threat scenarios; however, in those cases where death is not instantaneous, agents will often find that head injuries impair vision and aim.
Care should be taken to heal such injuries as quickly as possible or death may result.
Light Wounds: Slightly decreased accuracy.
Medium Wounds: Wavering vision.
Heavy Wounds: Death.
LEGS Injuries to the leg will result in drastically diminished mobility.
If an agent in hostile territory is unfortunate enough to lose the use of both legs but still remain otherwise viable, they are ordered to execute UNATCO Special Operations Order 99009 (Self-Termination).
Light Wounds: Slightly impaired movement.
Medium Wounds: Moderately impaired movement.
Heavy Wounds: Significantly impaired movement.
As progressively more damage is inflicted to the torso, agents may find their movements impaired and eventually bleed to death even if a mortal blow to a vital organ is not suffered.
Light Wounds: Slightly impaired movement.
Medium Wounds: Significantly impaired movement.
Major Wounds: Death.
Tech one: The range at which incoming rockets and grenades are detonated is short.
Tech two: The range at which detonation occurs is increased slightly.
Tech three: The range at which detonation occurs is increased moderately.
Tech four: Rockets and grenades are detonated almost before they are fired.
AQUALUNG Soda lime exostructures imbedded in the alveoli of the lungs convert CO2 to O2, extending the time an agent can remain underwater.
Tech one: Lung capacity is increased slightly.
Tech two: Lung capacity is increased moderately.
Tech three: Lung capacity is extended significantly.
Tech four: An agent can stay underwater indefinitely.
BALLISTIC PROTECTION Monomolecular plates reinforce the skin's epithelial membrane, reducing the damage an agent receives from projectiles and bladed weapons.
Tech one: Damage from projectiles and bladed weapons is reduced slightly.
Tech two: Damage from projectiles and bladed weapons is reduced moderately.
Tech three: Damage from projectiles and bladed weapons is reduced significantly.
Tech four: An agent is nearly invulnerable to damage from projectiles and bladed weapons.
CLOAK Subdermal pigmentation cells allow the agent to blend with their surrounding environment, rendering them effectively invisible to observation by organic hostiles.
Tech one: Power drain is normal.
Tech two: Power drain is reduced slightly.
Tech three: Power drain is reduced moderately.
Tech four: Power drain is reduced significantly.
COMBAT STRENGTH Sorting rotors accelerate calcium ion concentration in the saecoplasmic reticulum, increasing an agent's muscle speed several-fold and multiplying the damage they inflict in melee combat.
Tech one: The effectiveness of melee weapons is increased slightly.
Tech two: The effectiveness of melee weapons is increased moderately.
Tech three: The effectiveness of melee weapons is increased significantly.
Tech four: Melee weapons are almost instantly lethal.
EMP SHIELD Nanoscale generators partially protect individual nanites and reduce bioelectrical drain by canceling incoming pulses.
Tech one: Damage from EMP attacks is reduced slightly.
Tech two: Damage from EMP attacks is reduced moderately.
Tech three: Damage from EMP attacks is reduced significantly.
Tech four: An agent is nearly invulnerable to damage from EMP attacks.
ENERGY SHIELD Polyanilene capacitors below the skin absorb heat and electricity, reducing the damage received from flame, electrical, and plasma attacks.
Tech one: Damage from energy attacks is reduced slightly.
Tech two: Damage from energy attacks is reduced moderately.
Tech three: Damage from energy attacks is reduced significantly.
Tech four: An agent is nearly invulnerable to damage from energy attacks.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESISTANCE Induced keratin production strengthens all epithelial tissues and reduces the agent's vulnerability to radiation and other toxins.
Tech four: An agent is nearly invulnerable to damage from toxins.
IFF Automatic friend or foe identification uses advanced heuristic algorithms to associate visible objects with known threat categories.
Targeting reticle highlights RED over enemies, and GREEN over allies and neutrals.
NO UPGRADES [Always Active] INFOLINK One-way micro-transceiver array allows agents in the field to receive messages from Control, and to store and later retrieve relevant maps, conversations, and notes.
UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE JR133-VIOLET>This is top of the line all the way, so don't expect any upgrades.
-- Jaime Reyes <END NOTE> [Always Active] LIGHT Bioluminescent cells within the retina provide coherent illumination of the agent's field of view.
No upgrades.
MICROFIBRAL MUSCLE Muscle strength is amplified with ionic polymeric gel myofibrils that allow the agent to push and lift extraordinarily heavy objects.
Tech one: Strength is increased slightly.
Tech two: Strength is increased moderately.
Tech three: Strength is increased significantly.
Tech four: An agent is inhumanly strong.
Tech one: Power drain of augmentations is reduced slightly.
Tech two: Power drain of augmentations is reduced moderately.
Tech three: Power drain of augmentations is reduced.
Tech four: Power drain of augmentations is reduced significantly.
RADAR TRANSPARENCY Radar-absorbent resin augments epithelial proteins; microprojection units distort agent's visual signature.
Provides highly effective concealment from automated detection systems -- bots, cameras, turrets.
Tech one: Power drain is normal.
Tech two: Power drain is reduced slightly.
Tech three: Power drain is reduced moderately.
Tech four: Power drain is reduced significantly.
REGENERATION Programmable polymerase automatically directs construction of proteins in injured cells, restoring an agent to full health over time.
Tech one: Healing occurs at a normal rate.
Tech two: Healing occurs at a slightly faster rate.
Tech three: Healing occurs at a moderately faster rate.
Tech four: Healing occurs at a significantly faster rate.
RUN SILENT The necessary muscle movements for complete silence when walking or running are determined continuously with reactive kinematics equations produced by embedded nanocomputers.
Tech one: Sound made while moving is reduced slightly.
Tech two: Sound made while moving is reduced moderately.
Tech three: Sound made while moving is reduced significantly.
Tech four: An agent is completely silent.
SPEED ENHANCEMENT Ionic polymeric gel myofibrils are woven into the leg muscles, increasing the speed at which an agent can run and climb, the height they can jump, and reducing the damage they receive from falls.
Tech one: Speed and jumping are increased slightly, while falling damage is reduced.
Tech two: Speed and jumping are increased moderately, while falling damage is further reduced.
Tech three: Speed and jumping are increased significantly, while falling damage is substantially reduced.
Tech four: An agent can run like the wind and leap from the tallest building.
SPY DRONE Advanced nanofactories can assemble a spy drone upon demand which can then be remotely controlled by the agent until released or destroyed, at which a point a new drone will be assembled.
Further upgrades equip the spy drones with better armor and a one-shot EMP attack.
Tech one: The drone can take little damage and has a very light EMP attack.
Tech two: The drone can take minor damage and has a light EMP attack.
Tech three: The drone can take moderate damage and has a medium EMP attack.
Tech four: The drone can take heavy damage and has a strong EMP attack.
SYNTHETIC HEART This synthetic heart circulates not only blood but a steady concentration of mechanochemical power cells, smart phagocytes, and liposomes containing prefab diamondoid machine parts, resulting in upgraded performance for all installed augmentations.
<UNATCO OPS FILE NOTE JR133-VIOLET> However, this will not enhance any augmentation past its maximum upgrade level.
-- Jaime Reyes <END NOTE> NO UPGRADES TARGETING Image-scaling and recognition provided by multiplexing the optic nerve with doped polyacetylene "quantum wires" not only increases accuracy, but also delivers limited situational info about a target.
Tech one: Slight increase in accuracy and general target information.
Tech two: Additional increase in accuracy and more target information.
Tech three: Additional increase in accuracy and specific target information.
Tech four: Additional increase in accuracy and telescopic vision.
VISION ENHANCEMENT By bleaching selected rod photoreceptors and saturating them with metarhodopsin XII, the "nightvision" present in most nocturnal animals can be duplicated.
Subsequent upgrades and modifications add infravision and sonar-resonance imaging that effectively allows an agent to see through walls.
Tech one: Nightvision.
Tech two: Infravision.
Tech three: Close range sonar imaging.
Tech four: Long range sonar imaging.
AUGMENTATION STATS Occupies slot: Cranial Energy Rate: 10 Units/Minute Current Level: 1 (Can Upgrade/Maximum) SKILLS COMPUTER The covert manipulation of computers and security consoles.
Untrained: An agent can use terminals to read bulletins and news.
Trained: An agent can hack ATMs, computers, and security consoles.
Advanced: An agent achieves a moderate increase in detection countdowns and a moderate decrease in lockout times, as well as gaining the ability to control automated gun turrets.
Master: An agent is an elite hacker that few systems can withstand.
ELECTRONICS By studying electronics and its practical application, agents can more efficiently bypass a number of security systems using multitools.
Untrained: An agent can bypass security systems.
Trained: The efficiency with which an agent bypasses security increases slightly.
Advanced: The efficiency with which an agent bypasses security increases moderately.
Master: An agent encounters almost no security systems of any challenge.
ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING Experience with using hazmat suits, ballistic armor, thermoptic camo, and rebreathers in a number of dangerous situations.
Untrained: An agent can use hazmat suits, ballistic armor, thermoptic camo, and rebreathers.
Trained: Armor, suits, camo, and rebreathers can be used slightly longer and more efficiently.
Advanced: Armor, suits, camo, and rebreathers can be used moderately longer and more efficiently.
Master: An agent wears suits and armor like a second skin.
LOCKPICKING Lockpicking is as much art as skill, but with intense study it can be mastered by any agent with patience and a set of lockpicks.
Untrained: An agent can pick a lock.
Trained: The efficiency with which an agent picks locks increases slightly.
Advanced: The efficiency with which an agent picks locks increases moderately.
Master: An agent can defeat almost any mechanical lock.
MEDICINE Practical knowledge of human physiology can be applied by an agent in the field allowing more efficient use of medkits.
Untrained: An agent can use medkits.
Trained: An agent can heal slightly more damage and reduce the period of toxic poisoning.
Advanced: An agent can heal moderately more damage and further reduce the period of toxic poisoning.
Master: An agent can perform a heart bypass with household materials.
SWIMMING Underwater operations require their own unique set of skills that must be developed by an agent with extreme physical dedication.
Untrained: An agent can swim normally.
Trained: The swimming speed and lung capacity of an agent increases slightly.
Advanced: The swimming speed and lung capacity of an agent increases moderately.
Master: An agent moves like a dolphin underwater.
WEAPONS: DEMOLITION The use of thrown explosive devices, including LAMs, gas grenades, EMP grenades, and even electronic scramble grenades.
Untrained: An agent can throw grenades, attach them to a surface as a proximity device, or attempt to disarm and remove a previously armed proximity device.
Trained: Grenade accuracy and damage increases slightly, as does the safety margin for disarming proximity devices.
Advanced: Grenade accuracy and damage increases moderately, as does the safety margin for disarming proximity devices.
Master: An agent is an expert at all forms of demolition.
WEAPONS: HEAVY The use of heavy weaponry, including flamethrowers, LAWs, and the experimental plasma and GEP guns.
Untrained: An agent can use heavy weaponry, but their accuracy is low and movement is difficult.
Trained: Accuracy and damage increases slightly, while reloading and movement is somewhat faster.
Advanced: Accuracy and damage increases moderately, while reloading and movement is even more rapid.
Master: An agent is a walking tank when equipped with heavy weaponry.
WEAPONS: LOW-TECH The use of melee weapons such as knifes, throwing knives, swords, pepper guns, and prods.
Untrained: An agent can use melee weaponry.
Trained: Accuracy, damage, and rate of attack all increase slightly.
Advanced: Accuracy, damage, and rate of attack all increase moderately.
Master: An agent can render most opponents unconscious or dead with a single blow.
Untrained: An agent can use pistols.
Trained: Accuracy and damage increases slightly, while reloading is faster.
Advanced: Accuracy and damage increases moderately, while reloading is even more rapid.
Master: An agent is lethally precise with pistols.
WEAPONS: RIFLE The use of rifles, including assault rifles, sniper rifles, and shotguns.
Untrained: An agent can use rifles.
Trained: Accuracy and damage increase slightly, while reloading is faster.
Advanced: Accuracy and damage increases moderately, while reloading is even more rapid.
Master: An agent can take down a target a mile away with 
