I'm a single atheist white man, 55, reputedly intelligent, with unusual interests in politics, science, music and dance.
My 25-year-old child, the Free Software Movement, occupies most of my life, leaving no room for more children
The word “free” has two legitimate general meanings; it can refer either to freedom or to price. When we speak of “free software”, we're talking about freedom, not price.
Is the GPL pragmatic? Let's look at its results.
And if cynics ridicule freedom, ridicule community…if “hard-nosed realists” say that profit is the only ideal…just ignore them, and use copyleft all the same.
Proprietary software nowadays is often malware because the developers' power corrupts them.
In outrageous cases (though this outrage has become quite usual) proprietary programs are designed to spy on the users, restrict them, censor them, and abuse them.
If you use SaaSS, the server operator controls your computing. It requires entrusting all the pertinent data to the server operator, which will be forced to show it to the state as well
Let's make all computer users free.
I didn't vote for the Republicans who started these nasty policies and I won't vote for Democrats that support them either.
Amazon charges publishers for 20% sales tax in the UK even though the tax it pays is 3%.
Skype gave personal data about a Wikileaks supporter to another company without any legal obligation to do so.
Repeated acts of censorship are not the only reason to condemn iTunes. We should refuse to buy from iTunes because it requires nonfree software, imposes licenses more restrictive than copyright law, and often imposes DRM.
I do not have a favorite food, a favorite book, a favorite song, a favorite joke, a favorite flower, or a favorite butterfly. My tastes don't work that way.
I like polyphonic music from medieval times. Especially from the 1200's, with hocket. However, Gregorian chant has insufficient complexity to engage me.
I dislike most country music especially. I dislike c…rap music too. I don't like slow romantic songs, or harsh-sounding rock.
I am an Atheist, for scientific reasons. The religious theory of the natural world ("It's this way because a god decided to make it this way") does not explain anything, it only replaces one question with another. That means it is so bad that "valid" and "invalid" don't even apply.
As a matter of principle, I refuse to own a tie.
A large fraction of US fathers eventually get divorced, and subsequently rarely see the children for whom they are spending most of their time scrabbling for money. What a futile life!
I did not suppose that I would succeed in human relationships where most people fail.
The response to the Sep 2001 attacks has been pumped up by the people that hate our freedom, first Republicans and then Democrats, as an excuse to attack our freedom, and as a distraction so we won't defend it.
Recovering human rights requires saying, "The September 2001 attacks were not, after all, as important as the freedom we are losing."
The troops may have had that honorable intention, but in fact their presence in Iraq served scoundrels, oil companies and al Qa'ida
I am sorry about each of those 4500 or so deaths, and equally sorry about each of the Iraqis who died because of Dubya's invasion and the subsequent occupation.
I supported the invasion of Afghanistan, not because of al Qa'ida but to end the Taliban's oppression. It turned out well, with few casualties, until Dubya ignored Afghanistan to focus on the oil he really wanted to conquer.    US veterans deserve our concern, so I campaign for government policies to help poor Americans, including the many homeless Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. I think it is better to give them the help they deserve than a misguided salute
The term "intellectual property rights" is a fad promoted by WIPO itself.
Prostitution, adultery, necrophilia, bestiality, possession of child pornography, and even incest and pedophilia … should be legal as long as no one is coerced. They are illegal only because of prejudice and narrowmindedness.
Besides, I often enjoy rhinophytonecrophilia (nasal sex with dead plants). 
I am skeptical of the claim that voluntarily pedophilia harms children. The arguments that it causes harm seem to be based on cases which aren't voluntary, which are then stretched by parents who are horrified by the idea that their little baby is maturing. 
There is little evidence to justify the widespread assumption that willing participation in pedophilia hurts children.
Granted, children may not dare say no to an older relative, or may not realize they could say no; in that case, even if they do not overtly object, the relationship may still feel imposed to them. That's not willing participation, it's imposed participation, a different issue. 
I've read that male dolphins try to have sex with humans, and female apes solicit sex from humans. What is wrong with giving them what they want, if that's what turns you on, or even just to gratify them? 
