So, your boy's name is what? - Snot.
You called the guy Snot? - Snotboogie, yeah.
"Snotboogie.
" He like the name? - What? - Snotboogie.
This kid whose mama went to the trouble of christening him Omar Isaiah Betts? You know, he forgets his jacket so his nose starts running, and some asshole instead of giving him a Kleenex, he calls him "Snot.
" So, he's "Snot" forever.
Doesn't seem fair.
Life just be that way, I guess.
So who shot Snot? I ain't going to no court.
Motherfucker ain't have to put no cap in him though.
Definitely not.
He could've just whipped his ass, like we always whip his ass.
I agree with you.
He gonna kill Snot.
Snot been doing the same shit since I don't know how long.
Kill a man over some bullshit.
I'm saying, every Friday night in the alley behind the cut-rate, we rolling bones, you know? All the boys from around the way, we roll till late.
Alley crap game, right? And like every time, Snot, he'd fade a few shooters.
Play it out till the pot's deep.
Then he'd snatch and run.
Every time? - Couldn't help hisself.
Let me understand you.
Every Friday night, you and your boys would shoot crap, right? And every Friday night, your pal Snotboogie he'd wait till there was cash on the ground, then grab the money and run away? - You let him do that? - We catch him and beat his ass.
But ain't nobody ever go past that.
I gotta ask you.
If every time Snotboogie would grab the money and run away why'd you even let him in the game? What? If Snotboogie always stole the money, why'd you let him play? Got to.
This America, man.
Guess what he says.
What? "Gotta let him play, this America.
" No fucking way.
Would I make it up? - He give you the shooter? Three Newports and a Grape Nehi he's grand juried.
It's down, Bunk.
Barksdale's in Part 12, right? Project murder, Westside.
Which one, now? - Never mind.
Gonna sit in on it for a bit.
Where you gonna be? I'm gonna drop this off on Nathan, then I'm going to the office.
Don't answer no phones, Bunk.
Yeah, yeah.
And is that your signature on that photo array card? Yes.
And those are your initials as well, next to the photo you identified? Yes.
Mr.
Gant, do you see the man you identified from that photo array card sitting in the courtroom today? He's right there.
For the record, the witness has identified the defendant D'Angelo Barksdale.
Your witness.
Thank you.
Just one question, Mr.
Gant.
Have you ever seen this young man before the day in question? - No.
No further questions, your honor.
You're excused, Mr.
Gant.
Call your next witness.
State calls Nakeisha Lyles, Your Honor.
Do you promise to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? I do.
Ma'am, can you state your name, please? - Nakeisha Lyles.
And are you employed? - Yes, I am.
And what is your occupation, Ms.
Lyles? - I'm a security guard.
And were you employed as a security guard on May 4, the day of the shooting? - What were your duties on that date? - I was in the booth of 221.
And is that the guard booth in the lobby of the Fremont Avenue high-rise? Yes.
And you're behind bullet-proof glass, with a clear view of the lobby? - Yeah.
Good.
Now, Ms.
Lyles, I know this may be difficult for you but can you tell us what you saw? A man, you know, he was waiting for the elevator and when another man just starts beating on him and like, the one man, he got knocked down- - The victim got knocked down? - No, the man with the gun.
The man who was knocked down had a gun.
And do you see that man in the courtroom today? Nope.
Excuse me? He ain't here.
You don't You testified.
Ms.
Lyles, do you remember when Detective Barlow showed you this photo array? - Yeah.
Good.
I call your attention to your initials which identify this photo as the man who shot Mr.
Blanchard.
Did you write your initials above that photograph? He ain't the one that did the shooting.
But you identified him.
That's 'cause he looked like the boy that did it.
See, the one that did it, I saw him come in the building a week later.
You saw someone else you thought did the shooting? Right, a week later.
Ms.
Lyles, when you spoke with the detectives you never said anything about- I tried.
I called Detective Yeah, Detective Barlow on May 13th at 2:00.
But he didn't call me back.
Nicely done.
You called Detective Barlow? - Yeah, twice.
Yeah, I wrote it down in the log.
I need a price for pressure-treated.
$14.
That's the price that you were going to quote me? Do you feel that, Mikey, do you feel it? 'Cause I swear to God that is my fucking dick in your ear.
That's nice.
Hang on, you fucking thief.
What's up? - You been down the hall lately? - What? Your case just hit the wall.
Barksdale's crew, they turned it.
Two eyewitnesses and a statement.
No fucking way, pal.
You listen to me, you little shit, there is no way in hell I am paying that.
No.
You use my goddamn car to chauffeur that dusty bitch around.
Yo, ease up.
You don't understand.
I did it for that man and he do this.
Getting heated ain't gonna help.
Greggs, what's your bird saying? - It ain't what she says.
Yeah? What do you say? I say we wait, shithead.
That's him.
All right, easy, girl.
Yo, Herc, you got that? - Yeah, we see.
Are the uniforms on the horn? - They're on hold.
That's Ghost.
All right, good, Tiff.
Now tell me what I'm seeing, girl.
He gonna get little Mike.
Then what? Mike come back with the money.
Wait on the drop, take the car when it's deep in the block.
I don't want no foot chase.
Copy.
Got it.
Go, go, go.
The driver's mine.
Get the house on the left.
Get down.
Get on the ground.
Get up.
Put your hands behind your head.
Get your hands up.
Shut the engine.
Get that motherfucker around the corner.
Hand the keys out.
Drop the keys out of the car.
Drop them now.
Get out of the car.
Get down right here, right here.
Passenger, put your hands out of the car window.
Both hands out of the car window.
Use your right hand, open up the car door.
Slowly.
Step out of the car.
Down on the ground.
That's it, take his ass to jail.
You got him, Carv? - I got him.
Look at this shit.
Cross your legs.
Look at this.
You see what he did? Do you see what he did? Why he throw the gun on my car? Shit gonna scratch the paint.
Stay in the car.
Tell him to leave my car be.
Stay in the fucking car.
That shit just ain't right.
Whatcha doing with something like that? What you got here? You should've seen the way this bitch was looking at me, Kima.
Ugly little fucker almost shit his pants he was so scared.
Right? Two guns, remember? - Two? - It's all good, Kima, ease up.
All rise.
Part 12 of the Circuit Court of Baltimore City is now in session.
Be seated.
Madame Forelady, you have a unanimous verdict? As to the defendant D'Angelo Barksdale how say you to the charge of murder in the first degree? Not guilty.
How say you to the charge of murder in the second degree? Not guilty.
Yeah.
That's what I'm talking about.
Be seated.
It's you, daddy, yeah, that's right.
At least you made them work for it.
Be seated.
The jury is to be thanked for its services in this case.
Deputies will return defendant Barksdale to pre-trial for processing prior to his release.
Think I give a fuck? I'll be chalking you off one night.
You have a nice day.
Yo, Stringer, let's go.
Detective? Detective.
Judge asked to speak with you.
What the hell happened out there? - We lost.
Were you on this? - The case? - Yeah.
No, it was Barlow, with an assist from McLarney.
If it was Barlow's case, why are you in court? No reason.
You just like coming to court on murders you don't even work? Just for the thrill of it? When you start coming with the customers it's time to get out of the business.
You shouldn't talk dirty now that you're a judge.
Now that I'm a judge, I can say anything I damn please.
That Barksdale kid, he's a cousin to Avon Barksdale.
Who? - Avon Barksdale, Stringer Bell.
The crew that's been running Franklin Terrace for a year.
Stringer Bell? That was him in court with the legal pad and the glasses scaring the living shit out of every witness.
Him and the rest of his crew, Wee-Bey, Savino, Stinkum.
I saw them.
You think about clearing the court? On what basis? It's an open court in a free nation of laws.
I thought it was Baltimore.
Barksdale has five out of seven towers in the Terrace.
That's 10 stairwells in five high-rises, going 24l7 for dope and coke.
And that's just the towers.
The low-rises, the avenue corners, they're all his, too.
How do you know this? - Everybody knows it.
Define "everybody".
Everybody on the Westside.
Barksdale and Bell, they're the new power.
I mean, they've dropped 10 or Beat three cases in court doing the same thing they just did.
Who's working on them? - In the department? Nobody, really.
We're a little busy doing street rips, you know.
Community policing and all that.
So, if it's not your case, why do you care? Who said I did? One more time.
Stop playing Fuck me.
You got submission numbers for the ECU? - Nope.
Get them.
Why me? - You want the collar, do the submissions.
You giving me the start? - It's your turn.
What's the extension for ECU? Do I look like your bitch? - We taking the Mercedes? - No, I promised my girl.
Car's in her name.
Narcotics.
Lieutenant.
Line 2.
Here you go.
Fuck me, I cannot type.
Who the fuck can? Millennium been and gone and we still fucking around with Smith-Corona.
We need to get them computers hooked up.
They promised to train us a year ago.
What would an ass-ignorant motherfucker like you do with a computer? - I don't know, trade stocks and shit.
Jerk off, you mean.
We get them computers hooked up, Herc'll be deep into some porn and Kima'll still be bangin' out her 24s on that old piece of shit.
Gotta go upstairs.
What's up? Deputy's throwing some kinda piss-fit.
Major know? - He's up there now.
With a mouthful of piss, probably.
Like our major don't know what that tastes like? It's the chain-of-command, baby, the shit always rolls downhill.
Motherfucker, we talking about piss.
Piss does too, think about it.
Shit rolls, piss trickles.
Downhill, though.
You don't know that for sure- Not to change the subject on you two charmers but why are there only two ECU numbers? - Dope and guns.
Two guns, right? - That's three.
Fuck it, Kima.
You want a job done right, you gotta do it your own self.
He means that we are an effective deterrent on the war on drugs when we are on the street.
Fucking motherfuckers up, right? - Indeed.
Fuck the paperwork.
Collect bodies, split heads.
Split them wide.
The Western District way.
All right.
You heroic motherfuckers kill me.
Fighting the war on drugs one brutality case at a time.
Girl, you can't even call this shit a war.
Why not? Wars end.
You gonna write that down? How happy am I to see my pager go off with your call number? Smoke 'em if you got 'em because this motherfucker is as ripe as they get.
We aren't up, Nolan's squad is up.
I know.
But you had to answer the fucking phone.
Got to pay down my credit cards.
Not off him, you ain't.
I leave you alone for a minute, what do you do? - All right, I heard you.
Say the words, Bunk.
Come on, man.
Speak to me.
So, you gonna cut and run on the Bunk? That shit ain't right, Jimmy.
All right, then, this is my case.
My file.
This shit comes back a murder you ain't gotta do shit but stand there and laugh at me.
You happy now, you bitch? This'll teach you to give a fuck when it ain't your turn.
It ain't even gonna be a murder.
This motherfucker probably came in here to take a shit and just fell out.
I bet there ain't nothing to it.
You hope.
Where you going? Back to the office, where I belong.
You moldering motherfucker.
Don't even think about coming back a murder.
Don't even think of that shit.
By tomorrow, Lieutenant.
Don't fail me.
Major's pissed.
He should be.
He didn't have answers for the deputy's questions.
About what? - Avon Barksdale.
Who? - That's what I said.
Who the fuck is Avon Barksdale? According to the right honorable Judge Phelan a Westside player who apparently indulges in the occasional murder.
Now, as of today, I never heard of Mr.
Barksdale but by tomorrow All right, what do we know? According to the judge, he has the Westside high-rises.
The Terrace, mostly.
Sounds like a bunch of bullshit to me.
Maybe so.
It's gotta be tonight? - Major wants it filed by morning.
Call Andrews at DEA.
See what they have on this mope.
What about Homicide? If the guy's doing murders- Homicide major was in the same meeting.
His people will be scrambling to get something on paper, too.
I doubt they'll be willing to share, but you can try.
Barksdale, Avon.
Got a DOB? - Jay.
Where the fuck you been all day? Drinking, crack smoking.
Whoring myself on the streets of Baltimore.
Okay.
Just so you have an excuse.
But your fuck of a partner picked up the phone, caught a call.
Yeah, I saw him out there.
Yeah, what'd he get? - Decomp in a vacant apartment.
Fuck.
Nolan's squad was up, that one should be theirs.
It's a decomp.
Maybe it comes back a natural death.
You think? - In the Poe Homes, no fucking way.
Hold up.
Major wants to talk to you before you roll out.
What about? - Fuck should I know, I'm only your sergeant.
Sit the fuck down, Detective.
Something wrong? Put your ass in the chair.
You see these, McNulty, you see them? These are for you.
These are for you for as long as it takes me to get even.
Major, what- Don't "Major" me, you backstabbing, smartass piece of shit.
What the fuck you doing over at the courthouse anyway? Why the fuck are you talking to some shitbag judge? These are for you, McNulty.
This one over here is going up your narrow fucking Irish ass.
And this bad boy over here is in your fucking eye.
I'm upstairs answering questions about some project nigger I never heard of who's supposedly beat my unit out of 10 murders.
Three.
They only beat three in court.
I got the deputy asking about 10.
No, they did 10, we only charged them with three.
You're full of shit.
Sir, you can check the files.
Maurice Scroggins, Toreen Boyd, Roland Leggett.
The girl they found in the stairwell in Saratoga Collette something or other.
I mean, Major, these guys are real.
They beat me up on the Gerard Bogue case just like they did Barlow.
Scroggins? I don't have an H-file on Scroggins.
He was last year, summer.
Two in the back of the head, low-rise courtyard.
Let me understand something.
You are having the deputy bust my balls over a prior-year case? Is this what I need from you, you insubordinate little fuck? Major, look, I'm really sorry.
Phelan, he and I, we go back a little, you know? He wanted to know what I know about the crew in his court.
I had to go upstairs knowing nothing and explain to the deputy why he's getting calls about murders that don't mean a shit to anybody.
Look, sir, this judge, he fucks me up.
He asks me a question and I answer it.
I didn't know he was gonna call anybody.
You have my attention, Detective.
My complete, undivided attention.
Yes, sir.
Where you going? - I'm - You're typing.
Sir? Deputy wants a report on his desk at 0800.
A report? - Clean, no typos.
Make it look right, then put my name on it.
Do you want to reference all the murders? Or should I soft-pedal that? Fucking horse is out the barn door, right? Let's try not to make me look stupid twice.
And when you list the cases, put a little dot next to each one.
Deputy likes dots.
I'm sorry, Major, really.
Niggers crazy in there, yo.
Eastside, Westside, everybody beefing.
You ain't got no problem, right? - Hell no, we deep in there.
Y'all deep down at the courthouse, too.
Sitting there, I didn't know what the fuck would happen.
I'm wondering how y'all gonna make it happen for me, you know? Slick what y'all did with that security lady though.
That shit was tight, yo.
Let's walk.
What's the rule? - I know the rule.
Say it.
Don't talk in the car.
Or on the phone or in any place that ain't ours.
Don't say shit to anybody who ain't us.
But it was just you.
It's your fucking truck.
Don't talk in the car.
What about Marcel? No, I ain't inviting Marcel.
You want him out? - I really don't give a shit what you do.
Actually, no.
Go down there and make that motherfucker pay for his drinks.
The bum.
How you doing? - What's up, Dee, good to see you.
What up, man? Yo, you remember the cop that tried to pin Gerard on little Kevin? - Which one? - White detective, black hair.
The one that was knocking on all the doors.
What about him? He showed up in court to watch.
Word? What are you talking to that motherfucker for? Damn, Dee.
He say anything? No, just sat in the back.
Yo, what up, money? - What you got? Come on, I got something for you.
You must feel good.
You know how that go.
Say what? - I'm saying, you know, jail ain't no joke.
I don't know shit about jail.
I don't plan on knowing shit about jail, you feel me? You wanna talk about jail though, you can go sit down next to Marcel.
He just got home.
True, you right.
Sit your ass down.
I know it ain't go so good.
But that nigger, Pooh, he caught me off guard.
He came at me like he was crazy.
So you shoot the motherfucker? I'm saying, it was him or me.
You in our building.
You got people on both stairs.
You got more motherfucking people out in the court.
And you got a gun.
So, what I'm trying to figure out is how the fuck you end up shooting this nigger in front of the security booth with all them people? I'm saying, this nigger was coming at me - like he was trying to end me.
This ain't about him.
It's about you.
You can't play him out of that lobby.
You can't take a beating neither.
So, the first thing you do, you get all emotional you pull your gun out, you do some dumb shit that now we got to work around.
I know.
You ain't said one motherfucking thing I want to hear.
You right.
I mean, I gotta start thinking more.
You be saying that all the time and you right.
But I'm saying though, I mean the shit y'all pulled with that security lady.
It was tight.
I mean, that state lawyer.
I ain't never seen a white woman turn so red.
You should've been there.
Yo, man, you family, okay? But that shit cost money.
It cost time and money.
You gonna make that right? Most def, you gonna see.
When I get back to the tower, I'm gonna push them niggers.
All right.
Come here.
Don't walk out of here like that.
You family, all right? - All right.
You know it's always love.
Yeah.
Type quieter.
You didn't have to wait up, love.
Your boy have a heart attack? No, I went that way but Doc Frazier didn't bite when this popped up.
You seriously fucked.
Speaking of fucked, why are you here? I did bad, Bunk.
It wasn't my fault.
Really.
Judge Phelan pulled me up when the jury let the Barksdale kid go.
Him being a judge and all, I let go of some shit.
He raise a stink? Major got busted by the Deputy Ops and I gotta have a report by morning.
There you go, giving a fuck when it ain't your turn to give a fuck.
Look at them, Cole.
Don't it make your dick bust concrete to be in the same room with two noble, selfless public servants? I know I'm proud.
Tell me you put this one down.
Of course not.
Of course your partner here has to go over to the courthouse and lay our business out in front of a judge.
So, you heard? Major calls me at home, says I should get in early read over your shoulder.
It's got dots.
Deputy loves dots.
Fuck you and your dots.
All I did was answer the guy's questions.
He's a fucking judge.
And the Deputy's the fucking Deputy.
And he, not the judge has what's left of your beshitted career in his hot little hands.
He says so you're walking foot in the Western tomorrow.
Fuck it, I came from Western.
Where don't you want to go, asshole? Evidence Control? Personnel? - Headquarter Security? - The boat.
The marine unit? Yeah, those diesel fumes, they make me feel seasick.
That's good, keep it up.
I'll go this against $10, you're riding the boat, midnight shift.
Listen to the man, Jimmy.
Yo, Stringer.
You here early.
Yeah, I'm on my game today.
Eggy put out testers? New deal today.
You going out on point, picking up business in the Pit.
What? - You the man in the low-rises.
The low-rises? You got Ronnie Mo in the Pit.
Ronnie Mo got 851 this morning.
Why you gonna put me in the low-rises when I had a tower since summer? Yeah, you had a tower.
And you might have a tower again if you can keep your mind to shit.
This is fucked up.
You show us you can run the Pit, and you'll be back uptown soon enough.
My uncle know about this? What do you think? - Yo, Bey.
Yo.
Give little cousin here a ride down the way.
Have your people deal with Daniels.
Right.
You gonna send your man McNulty? Tell him about chain-of-command.
Tell him yourself, he's dead to me.
Yo, you looking for Ronnie Mo, he uptown.
I know.
You Dee, right? - Wasn't you in the towers? - Yeah.
Why they put you down here, yo? You mess with the count or something? I killed a nigger.
Last call on green top, last call.
Major? Counting what we got from the DEA, how much do we have on this guy? Lieutenant, in my hand, I'm holding how many pages? - Four, sir.
Rawls had a fucking phone book.
What can I tell you, they got 10 open murder files.
If we had 10 shots at him, we'd have more than a fat file.
I said that upstairs.
They can't put this guy down for a murder - so they're getting us to do their work.
Not getting us, they got us.
They got you, in fact.
Excuse me, sir? Dawson has the York and Cator case, that leaves you.
Shit.
Look, set something up with Homicide and whoever else you want from your squads.
State's Attorney? - Yeah, we should call them, too.
Fucking shitstorm.
Lieutenant, line 3.
Deputy Ops.
Here we go.
Close that for me.
What's the coffee do? Give it that money feel, so it don't seem so white.
Yeah.
Leastways, you got it on both sides this time.
All right, give me the real.
Wait, why are we gonna use real money? We're not burning no lemon street chumps here.
Feel me? I'm down.
You down? Johnny's down.
You got that gig.
Can I get a one-on-one? Yo, Poot.
Yo, Wallace.
This the way Ronnie Mo set it up? - Yeah.
Man, this is fucked up.
Look, you can't serve your customers straight up after taking they money.
Somebody snapping pictures, they got the whole damn thing.
See what I'm saying? You get paid you send they ass off around the building, yo.
Then you serve.
All right? We gotta start tightening up, man.
No more shortcuts.
What's your count? - I'm up $270.
You want to count it.
I mean, I don't know how you do shit up in the towers.
But down here, you want to count it.
Shit.
Y'all niggers been burnt.
That's what you got to say? This look like money, motherfucker? Money be green.
Money feel like money.
That shit look green to you? - It got a dead fucking president on it.
I don't give a fuck about the president.
That shit ain't money.
He ain't no president.
What you mean? - Hamilton.
He ain't no president.
Nigger, is you crazy? Ain't no ugly-ass white man get his face on no legal motherfucking tender except he president.
This shit happen again, you off the money.
You hear me? You ain't even gonna be serving no more.
Your ass be out on the bottom end of Vine street sucking on a 40, yelling "5-0".
You hear me? Get the fuck out of here.
That it? No.
You need to pace that shit, man.
Johnny, man, you hear me? - I'm cool.
No, man, you gonna fall out slamming that shit like that one of these days, boy.
Yo, man, I'm trying to give you a little game, man but you want to pretend like you know something.
I know a lot, Bubbs.
No, you green.
I'm trying to get you brown, man but you still green.
You gonna make me brown? Yo, Bubbs? Let me do the scam tomorrow.
Come on, man, I'm ready.
Yo, I'm brown.
Shit, man, you ain't even fucking beige.
Buy-busts.
Yes, sir.
No long surveillances, no Kel recorders, no DNRs.
I want to get in and out as quickly as possible.
That makes sense.
Phelan isn't just a judge, he's a political entity.
If he asks for something, I want to give it to him.
Why is he asking about this Barksdale? He watched his state's attorney get beat up in his court this week.
Lost a murder case.
We lose cases all the time.
But a judge happens to be asking about this one.
Who you using? - Lead detective? - Greggs, she's my best right now.
I know her? CID for four months.
Came over from Eastern DEU.
Who's Homicide sending? - That's up to Major Rawls.
I wouldn't be surprised if you get McNulty.
You know McNulty? - Not really.
He's the one who mouthed off to the judge in the first place.
He talked to the judge? - Yeah, that's my understanding.
So, if he comes over on this, watch your back.
You need anything, you ask me.
I'll give you all the help I can.
But no surprises.
Yes, sir.
Keep me briefed.
Hi, McNulty, City Homicide.
Is anyone expecting you? Yeah, Special Agent Fitzhugh, Squad 5.
He's expecting me, can I- - Not without an escort.
All right.
Agent Fitzhugh to the front.
Fitz.
Brother.
She can spot a bad one.
Nothing personal, Jimmy.
You know how they are with security nowadays.
I know how they are with locals, yeah.
So, what's up, g-man? - Good stuff.
Yeah? Your man gave us a hell of a case.
Comes to informants, Jimmy, you can pick 'em.
He's one of the better Cl's I've ever worked.
You up on a wire? - That and more.
So, like, he be talking like he got some type of record deal, you know? - Man, please.
That nigger.
The pussy has you.
Jesus Christ.
Pretty fucking great, huh? - How'd you get this on tape? That's not tape.
That's live, brother.
That's live? Live from a three-story walkup on Homer Avenue in the bottoms of Pimlico.
This is going on right now? - As we speak.
How? Fiber-optic lensing.
Camera's behind a hole in the drywall.
So small it looks like a nail might've made it.
Where's the mic? These motherfuckers sound great.
Two remotes behind the baseboard heating ducts.
That's about $3,000 of raw on the table today.
We followed it all the way from New York.
You're up in New York on this? We could be.
We're backing into some Dominicans up there.
We could have a Title Ill on them right now if we wanted.
Wrong war, brother.
Most of the squad's been transferred to counterterrorism.
This thing's the last drug case we got pending and I gotta shut it down by the end of the month.
You guys are getting out of drugs? - Yeah, for a while.
We just don't have the manpower to stay on anything big.
Not since those towers fell.
What, we don't have enough love in our hearts for two wars? - Joke's on us, huh? - I guess so.
Still and all, you give great case, brother.
I wish you could've worked it with us.
Got some Tech Nine over here, over here, Tech Nine.
That's it, here's $20, hook it up.
Two and two.
Hold up.
What? - Just two and two.
Come on, man, I ain't got time for this.
I gave you $20, man.
You gave me $20? One and a short three.
So you get, two- - $7.
Hold up.
I get $7 back.
Come on, man.
Calm down.
Hold up, hold up, you fucking me up.
Chill out.
You dropping shit on the ground? - Hold up.
I ain't got all day.
Come on, man, it's easy.
Let's rewind, man.
What the fuck is you doing? Look at this shit.
Look, nigger.
That's the motherfucker right there.
Who? - The white boy right there.
Poot, grab that motherfucker.
The white boy.
Hold up, man.
Stop that white motherfucker.
Yeah, motherfucker, yeah, nigger.
Fuck that.
What are you doing, man? Calm down, man.
Making me run, what the fuck is wrong with you? - What, man, why you fucking with me? - Shit.
This the motherfucker right here with the make-believe money.
Seen his ass drop it and shit.
Wasn't me.
Motherfucker.
It was this nigger, I saw him.
Get the fuck up.
All right, listen, I'm sorry.
Fuck that.
What we need to do is, motherfucker burned us for $30.
We need to take him to Franklin Ave and throw his ass right onto the motherfucking expressway.
All right, listen, I'm fucking sorry.
I fucked up, man.
What you got on you? - Just the $10 I dropped, man, the real one.
What's up? Fuck it.
Hell, yeah.
For now, we'll work out of Narcotics, with Kima keeping the file.
We'll copy everything to Ronnie at the courthouse and your people.
Fine with us.
McNulty and Santangelo will work on the open murders see if anything can be manufactured.
Kima and my people will do hand-to-hand stuff in the Terrace.
Buy-bust, quick and dirty.
We put years over top of some of these people, we'll roll a few.
You're not gonna get Avon Barksdale or Stringer Bell or anyone else above the street, not on street rips.
You don't know that.
These guys are good.
They're deep and organized.
They've got everyone running scared.
What do you suggest? Surveillance teams, DNRs, asset investigation.
Keep gathering string till we can find a way in.
Either a wired CI or a Title Ill.
That's what makes this case.
Is that what you told the judge? Okay, so I'm an asshole for that.
But I'm right about this much.
No mics, no wires.
We do this fast and clean and simple.
Then you don't do it at all.
Seems to me you all could've had this fight before calling the State's Attorney's office.
Let me ask you something.
What do we know about Avon Barksdale? What do we know? The guy's owned all of Franklin Terrace for a year.
What do we have on him right now? A DOB? A sheet? A B of I photo? We don't even have a fucking photo of the guy.
Gimme a break, Jimmy.
Two days ago no one on this fucking floor knew this mope's name.
Now he's some kinda criminal mastermind.
Shit, I say we go down to the Terrace and fuck some people up.
You all don't need a prosecutor, you need a fucking referee.
When you know how you're playing this, give a yell.
We know how we're playing it.
My people are going down to do some hand-to-hands.
Detectives McNulty and Santangelo are going to the hall to review old murder files and try to manufacture a fresh prosecution.
As things heat up, I'll go to the deputy and get us more manpower but this case is not going to sprawl.
A month from now, we're all gonna be back at our day jobs.
Fine.
Bring me your hand-to-hands.
Anything on the murders, you can take to llene Nathan in violent crimes.
I'll clue her in.
Anything else? One last thing: No one does anything at all on the street without me knowing about it first.
Chain-of-command, Detective.
That's how we do things down this end of the hall.
If she's fucking you on visitation, take her ass to court.
Not that simple, Bunk.
Judge gives me three weekends out of four, I still need her to cooperate.
You know, move it around so when I have to work through a weekend, she switches with me.
The judge gives me three weekends but no flex I still lose.
You two can't talk this through? - No.
How is it you always got the whole world pissed off at you? You know Daniels? Narcotics? - What about him? - He's running this detail.
Watch your ass then.
He a snake? No, he ain't that.
But he's a company man.
You know, a prospect.
Grapevine says the next district to open up is his.
Shortlist for major? He's black, he's still young, he hasn't pissed anybody off.
Shit, he even has a law degree.
No shit.
University of Baltimore, but still, you know.
He's gonna fuck this Barksdale thing up.
How's that? - Buy-bust? - He's pissing in the wind.
You already fucked it up, Jimmy.
You made it happen.
I feel like that motherfucker at the end of Bridge On The River Kwai.
What the fuck did I do? - The bridge of what? You ain't seen that movie? I am fucked.
Fucked is me.
God damn it, you gonna make me go another round.
Two more.
It's all in the game.
I'm saying it was only a couple dollars.
It ain't the money.
But we fucked him up so bad.
It's the message, Dee.
You can't show no weakness.
Still, I'm saying.
What? String.
You ain't touched that drink.
You want some company? - I ain't no john.
Good, 'cause I ain't no whore.
I'm not a regular, okay? - I work for Stringer.
He pay you, don't he? Come on, buy me a drink.
How much? - $20.
I drink slow.
Maybe another time.
Buy me a drink, honey? - How about you buy me a drink? Carla.
One here.
Where you at? - Where you think? - You late for work? - A little.
How much you got left? - Girl, please.
Ten pages and all the footnotes.
When's it due? Tomorrow, beginning of class.
Long night for you.
Long night for me.
I'll make sure and pick up some coffee.
So, I drive all the way down to Liberty Road at 2:00 in the damn morning, on a midnight shift I got two murders and a police shooting going down, to do what? To get a goddamn mouse out of my wife's bedroom closet.
Can you imagine that shit? So what did you do? What the fuck you think? I got the mouse out as fast as I could and drove back to work.
Couldn't do nothing else.
Nadine out of her fucking mind over this little-ass field mouse.
She's up on the chair and shit when I come like some goddamn cartoon.
I mean, how'd you catch the mouse? - Catch him? I lit his ass up.
You shot the mouse? With your nine? First shot killed my wife's dress shoe.
Got him with the second.
What? You shot a mouse with your service weapon? Yeah.
What'd you do with the carcass? I cleaned it up, you know.
I thought about leaving that little motherfucker as a warning to the others.
Fuck me.
It's 3:30 in the morning.
I'm supposed to be early relief.
Jimmy, man, I gotta change my clothes at least, come on.
I'm gonna do this case.
What? I'm gonna do this case the way it should be done.
It's a buy-bust, Jimmy, get in and get out.
Fuck that.
Jimmy.
Let's call it a night.
Hi, Bubbs.
Thought you was still locked up.
Nope.
How long you been home? It's been three months.
You don't write, you don't call.
Who's he? A friend.
Is he gonna make it? You still working drugs? Downtown, yeah.
I got something for you.
Last call.
Fuck.
Found body.
200, Block Amity.
I'm a little thin today, boss.
The whole squad's a little thin, remember? We're down a man since your partner got himself detailed.
Yeah.
I got it.
Jesus.
How you doing, Bobby? - Bunk, what's going on, man? We got one or two shots to the head.
No witnesses, no suspects.
You got a.
380 casing on the ground there.
Buddy, do me a favor, bag that for me? So, who called it in? No one.
21 Post found him.
It's a William Gant, address on Schroeder.
You got pictures? - Yeah, we got them.
Okay, let's roll him.
Mr.
Gant, do you see the man you identified sitting in the courtroom today? He's right there.

That's the witness all right, the one from the Barksdale case.
Gant, William.
41 years.
Single headshot, close range.
Bullet pancaked on the inner skull.
Ain't necessarily what it looks like.
No? A man's walking down a street in West Baltimore.
That'll catch you a bullet for a half-dozen reasons.
Yeah, that it will.
You run him for a sheet? Yeah, a couple of disorderlies is all.
Guy works maintenance down at Poe Homes.
Lives alone, no wife, no kids.
Only time his name pops up on the courthouse computer is for being a state witness in Barlow's case.
Otherwise, I don't even make that connection.
I mean, you've got to admit it don't make sense to ace this motherfucker after he done testified.
Sends a hell of a message though.
He's one hardheaded fuck in the Terrace you can't run off or buy out, right? If your audience is the high-rise projects, a move like this cuts right through the shit.
What are you gonna tell the major? That I caught a stone fucking whodunit.
Don't soft-sell the witness angle.
Come on.
Why get the bosses riled before we know for sure? If I start talking shit that a witness got killed- - Bunk, tell him.
Why? Just cover yourself on this.
Jimmy, you ain't gonna do what I think? Listen to me.
This shit is gonna jump up and bite you in your ass.
Just cover yourself.
What the hell was that about? - Nothing.
Morning.
Jesus Christ.
Goddamn.
Who do you got to fuck in this town to get a real office? At least that works.
It was for McNulty.
I shouldn't be here.
Then you shouldn't.
They killed a fucking witness out of your court.
Yeah, you told me.
You did your civic duty.
Under the power vested in me by the circuit court for Baltimore city I absolve you of all your sins, Detective McNulty.
You are my sin, you know that? For talking to you, my major is ready to cut my throat.
Jimmy, you knew I was gonna make that call.
Admit it.
I didn't think you would straight-up hang me out on the line in a shitstorm.
Look, it's not like it was when I was a prosecutor.
I'm a judge now, the rules are different.
You missed a spot.
Yeah, what's done is done.
Question is, what do you want me to do now? I think you can leverage the Deputy Ops with a phone call.
He's already detailed people.
Some detail.
Asshole lieutenant thinks he can buy-bust his way to Avon Barksdale.
You want leverage? We give the dead-witness angle to the newspapers.
Stir some real shit.
No, that tips Barksdale that someone's working him.
We don't want to go public.
No? Just put it to the Deputy Ops you lost a witness who testified in your court.
That forces the department to commit to the investigation.
And when you call Burrell this time, will you forget my fucking name? - You missed a spot.
Why don't you fucking do it? Seniority.
You found us.
Wasn't easy.
You asked for these guys? - I asked for more manpower.
Have a seat.
What the fuck Sir, I- He was showing me the trigger pull on his Glock.
And he was just- - Detective? Officer Pryzbylewski shot the wall, Lieutenant.
Why? Why did you shoot the wall, Officer Pryzbylewski? I was just showing Carv how my trigger pull is light, you know.
I got it so it's real light.
He took the clip out, boss.
But not the one in the chamber.
No, I forgot the one in the chamber, and Shit, I'm sorry, lieutenant.
You want him to write on it? - Write on what? You let one go, you got to write.
You got to justify the use of deadly force.
Against a plaster wall.
It's an accident, okay? Give me a fucking break already.
Your name is what? - Pryzbylewski.
From Auto Unit, right? Cantrell sent you.
Not exactly.
Lt.
Cantrell sent me to Casualty Section a couple months back.
And I asked out of Casualty.
You came here from Casualty Section? Man, these shits is right, yo.
It's good with the hot sauce, too.
Most definite.
Dee, want some nuggets? - No, go ahead, man.
Man, whoever invented these, he off the hook.
Word! Motherfucker got the bone all the way out the damn chicken.
Till he came along, niggas be chewing on drumsticks and shit getting their fingers all greasy.
He said "Later" to the bone.
Nugget that meat up and make some real money.
You think the man got paid? - Who? - Man who invented these.
Shit, he richer than a motherfucker.
Why? You think he get a percentage? Why not? Nigga, please, the man who invented them things just some sad-ass down at the basement of McDonald's thinking up some shit to make money for the real players.
No man, that ain't right.
Fuck right.
It ain't about right, it's about money.
You think Ronald McDonald gonna go down that basement and say, "Mr.
Nugget, you the bomb.
"We selling chicken faster than you can tear the bone out.
"So, I'm gonna write my clowny-ass name on this fat-ass check for you.
" Shit.
The nigger who invented them things still working in the basement for regular wage thinking of some shit to make the fries taste better.
Believe.
He still had the idea, though.
Who? Polk and Pat Mahone.
A couple of drunks from Property.
I don't know them.
Why would you? They haven't made a case in 10 years.
Also got handed some kid named Prezbelowski or Prezbelewski- - Pryzbylewski, him, I know.
Yeah? - Why was he in Casualty Section? - He shot up his own car.
You remember? - He did what? He fired two clips into an unmarked car, somewhere out in West Baltimore.
Called in a Signal 13 on the radio, like he was under fire from a sniper.
You didn't hear about that? He stuck to his story for half a day, until Ballistics matched the bullet to his off-duty weapon.
We almost indicted him for false report.
Why didn't you? He's got some kind of suction with the Mayor's office.
I'm not sure.
My point is, I can't build much with the garbage they sent me.
So, go to the deputy, right? You've got his ear on this.
Why not? I ask the deputy for manpower.
He then tells Property to send me two men, and Special to send two more.
And those shift lieutenants they know it's a chance to dump their deadwood.
The deputy, he knows this, too.
He could have offered to let me pick but he didn't.
He sent me a message on this.
And the message is? Don't dig in, don't get fancy.
Put a quick charge on this Barksdale and then get out.
If he sends me good police, I might do good police work.
But if the state's attorney's office were to- - No, no.
Rhonda, darling it's bad protocol for me to ask for help and then trash the help I'm given.
You, on the other hand- - No way.
My office doesn't play that way.
You people staff your cases, you bring us casework.
I cross that line, I only piss everyone off.
Best I can do is tell my unit chief that you drew shit.
He wants to take it upstairs call the deputy for operations, that's his choice.
That won't happen.
Probably not.
Make lemonade.
Fuck! Yo, Kima, where you taking us? - Get down.
What? Jesus.
You all ain't got no creep to you.
Pair of goddamn elephants.
A rusted nail just went through my shoe.
I'm gonna need a tetanus to get behind this bullshit.
Kima.
Hand me that bag.
Kima, if you don't mind me asking when was it that you first figured you liked women better than men? I mind you asking.
Gentlemen, what's going on there, guys? - Testers, man, already out.
No.
I'm not in need of your services, bro.
I'm offering my services to y'all.
What you got in the bag, man? One thing a gentleman of color like better than a new pair of downtown shoes is a downtown brim, right? What's with the hats? - Five-o! - Five-o! Shut it down! Clean? You ain't gonna put that one on me.
He a witness.
You picked that shit up off the ground, so don't be trying to put shit on me.
Is that what you think I'm about? Boy thinks I'm gonna dirty him.
Like y'all won't do it.
You Western knockos come here, picking shit up off the ground putting it on whoever you damn well please.
Do I know you? Let's understand each other.
I'm not Western District.
I'm not a knocko.
I don't dirty people because I don't care about a possession charge.
I'm a Murder Police, I'm here about the bodies.
D'Angelo here knows that.
He remembers me from the trial, right? I'm sitting in back there, behind Stringer, watching, listening.
Y'all hassling me about that shit? I thought you heard what the jury had to say.
Fuck the jury.
Yeah, fuck the jury.
This is just us talking, right? Just you, me, my partner and What did you say your name was? I didn't say shit.
Just you, me, my partner and Mr.
Shit here.
We're just talking about how things go, right? We are just sharing our thoughts here.
Bunk, a vial for your thoughts.
I'm thinking it's one thing for one of you little Terrace niggers to shoot somebody in the lobby of the 221 building, you know? Who gives a fuck? - But when you ace a witness - A working man.
who ain't even in the game You gonna act like this is news? I tell you this, I don't know shit about shit, but I do know this anyone who spend time witnessing shit, you gonna get got.
I know that sounds kind of harsh, but that's the way things go around here officer.
Let's roll.
That how you see things, D'Angelo? Like your friend here? I'm here trying to outfit niggers with something to rile up some pussy.
You don't want to know, Bubbles used to get that pussy.
I reckon the pussy ain't worth what it used to be if you can do it without a proper brim, right? Come on, big man.
Something's up.
What? Don't know.
Yo, Carv.
Come here.
Listen, you see Bubbs put a hat on anybody you take some pictures, all right? - Yeah? - Especially the red one.
If you see him put that red hat on anybody's head snap your fucking fingers off.
Where you going? Yo, Carv.
Notice that most of the time it's like Kima thinks she's above us or something? I mean, I don't see any stripes on her fucking sleeve I don't see that.
All I see is some stuck-up dyke bitch who ain't been in CID half the time of you or me and she's fucking telling us what to do.
It ain't right.
You think it's right? Shut up for just a minute.
I'm trying to concentrate on this shit here.
Nice truck.
No? Makes your breath minty fresh.
Is you all gonna arrest me? Then go the fuck ahead and arrest me.
If not, shut the fuck up.
You want to get arrested? - No.
Shut the fuck up your own self.
I'm out of here.
Hey, D'Angelo.
You better bend the fuck over.
Shit.
You ain't got nothing else to do today? - No, no, nothing.
Y'all ain't got no charge.
You're getting awfully close, man.
You new on the force or some shit? All right, Dee.
Move it.
It's Greggs.
Get me the lieutenant.
Prez? He's no good to anyone, he's a goof.
How is he my problem then? How is he still carrying a gun and badge? You know Valchek in Southeast? - Yeah.
Son-in-law.
I can't carry him on this.
You know who Special sent me? - Who? - Polk and Mahoney.
Between the two of them I don't have a designated driver.
I heard you have someone from Pawnshop.
Lester Freamon? A cuddly housecat.
I don't think he can even find his gun.
Look, take Pryzbylewski back.
You know I can't.
I would, but I can't.
I gave Valchek my word on it, okay? I can't help it that Prez is fucking the guy's daughter.
If not for that, he's gone, no question.
So, you got suction with Valchek? If I cross him, I'm fucked on the next round of promotions.
For Christ's sake, I'm with you on the short list for major.
Valchek has suction with the First District Democratic Club and they got suction with the Mayor, and I'm the runt without a tit here.
I owe you, okay? - So, give me Sydnor.
No way.
Give me Sydnor and I'll keep Prez.
He's my best man, you can't take him.
I'm taking your worst, remember? - How about Steinman? I'm working drugs in West Baltimore, I need a black guy for surveillance.
I need Sydnor.
Jesus, know what Prez did this morning? - Tell me.
He put a bullet through a wall, dry-firing in the detail office.
Look, no promises.
You give me Sydnor, I'll carry Pryzbylewski as long as I can.
Fine, Cedric, fuck, whatever.
Jesus Christ.
How did you handle the judge? I told him we were looking closely at the situation.
I asked him not to say anything publicly.
So, then he's not gonna go public, right? Judge Phelan called this morning crying about a witness in his murder trial who was killed.
Did the judge say where he heard it? He heard it from our man, McNulty.
That's his pipeline on this crap.
Pardon my French, but I got no problem giving that asshole up at this point.
I don't need people I can't trust.
Yeah, who does? The newspapers get hold of this, it'll be a complete clusterfuck.
Okay, so the thing to do is reassure the judge keep him off his damn soapbox.
An arrest or two would help.
What if it's true? What if Barksdale ordered the murder of a state's witness? Are you serious? Why would anyone do that after the witness testifies? - It has no effect on the case.
Payback, plain and simple.
Bullshit, plain and simple.
Look, I know there could be two dozen other reasons for this man to be murdered, but what if- No money for pretrial.
No witness protection program.
Look, this is a poor fucking city, gentlemen.
The last thing we ever need to do is to announce we lost a witness.
I mean, it's hard enough pushing felony casework through that courthouse as it is.
You got to pull McNulty off this.
Who caught the murder case? - Bunk Moreland, McNulty's partner.
Then you'd have to pull him, too.
No, we pull McNulty up, the judge will bring the press into this.
I can see that a mile away.
No, we're gonna sit tight, let McNulty take his best shot and hope like hell he comes up short.
How do you wanna handle this? We got nothing on him.
We try to front, he'll see right through us.
He's scared though.
Soft.
Go with the deuce? Hold up, hold up.
He part of my case? - No, sir.
He's a potential suspect in my murder.
Which might be part of my case.
I could use some coffee.
You want some coffee? - I need a word with you.
We're just about to go- Now.
You remember all that bullshit I gave you about keeping me informed about nothing happening that I don't know about? - Lieutenant- - Wasn't bullshit.
My partner caught a murder.
It may have nothing with Barksdale at all.
I just came from Deputy Ops' office where your own major's telling Burrell to do you.
You hear me? Rawls is giving you up.
What the fuck did I do? - You can't shut your mouth.
You think that downtown judge is gonna bail your ass out on this? You really think that? You should have come to me.
We bring this business to the deputy first, we got a shot.
But no, you're out there all alone, jumping bad.
You got the deputy's ear? - On this case, I do.
Then how come they sent every worthless hump in plainclothes? You ask for men, they send you drunks and fuck-ups.
I want to do this case.
So do I.
Then you're gonna get all the way in, Lieutenant.
If I see you get all the way in, then I know who you are, what you're about.
Who is he? - D'Angelo Barksdale.
Nephew to the king.
That's the one that beat the murder? Yeah, him.
What do you have to connect him to the dead witness? - Not a thing.
Why did you pick him up? Press him.
See what kind of flex he shows.
She goes in with you.
We don't need her.
Bunk and me, we got our own rhythm.
You want me in, McNulty? I thought you said you wanted me in.
You're along for this interview, but it's Homicide's play, so let him lead.
You might want to run tag and title on these two trucks.
They scoped us when we jacked the kid.
Been there.
Info's already in the file.
Y'all weren't the only lawmen down in the Canyon today.
Really, where were you? - Where was she? I mean, the thing is, I can't see a reason for that man to be dead.
I can't.
I mean, hell, you beat us in court.
We don't take it personal.
Fuck, no.
We get paid either way.
And it's not like you did anything real bad throwing a couple of hot ones at Pooh Blanchard.
No one's gonna miss that motherfucker.
But you know the man who got killed this time? You know who that poor son of a bitch was? A citizen.
Worked every goddamn day of his life.
You know that? He would get up every day, go out and do maintenance work.
Then on the weekends, he was driving a cab out to the airport.
Two jobs.
And he volunteers what little time he has left at his church.
Church-going man.
A bethel man, a deacon.
Two jobs and three kids.
Did you know that? Three kids.
Young, too.
Five, eight, eleven.
Crying their little orphaned asses to sleep 'cause they lost their mama some years ago and now they out there on their own.
He doesn't believe us.
I know he don't believe it.
We've been here two hours, telling you what's true in the world and you sit like nothing happened.
Where my lawyer at? We called him.
When he comes, we'll let you know.
I got nothing to say.
I mean, I'm sorry for the man, but I ain't got nothing to say.
You sorry? You sorry for him? You fucking killed the man.
No.
Yes, you did.
We don't think that you shot him, but if you weren't so busy lighting folks up in high-rise lobby he ain't coming out of the elevator and see it happen.
He don't see anything, he doesn't testify.
He doesn't testify, those kids still got a daddy to lean on.
Why'd he testify? - How would we know? - He didn't have to testify.
No, he didn't, but he did.
And you still beat the charge, didn't you? But that wasn't enough.
It's not enough to beat the murder.
They gotta send a cold message to everyone in the Terrace.
Fuck the working man.
Fuck his kids, that shit don't count.
See, that's what I don't get about the drug thing.
Why can't you sell the shit and walk the fuck away? You know what I mean? Everything else in this country gets sold without people shooting each other behind it.
In the Terrace, it's one body after another.
You remember that little boy got shot in the barbershop on West Lombard last summer? One asshole chases another into a house empties a 9.
Bullshit argument over and that little kid, instead of getting his first haircut he gets one in the eye.
You remember that? - It's fucked up.
Yes, it is.
They didn't have to do that.
Shoot up a barber shop? No, they did not have to do that.
That man was just my thing.
My thing, they ain't had They ain't had to do that.
No mama and no daddy.
Lord Jesus! I'll tell you what I think you should do, D'Angelo not because I think you wanted that man to get shot or had anything to do with shooting him.
But I think you could just sit here for a moment or two, collect your thoughts you know, get your shit together.
And then I think it might be a good thing for you to write a little letter to those children and you let them know you're sorry that they're not gonna have anyone left, you know? I mean, just say something.
Tell them how you personally think your uncle maybe he got it wrong this time, because it's wrong that they lost their daddy behind what happened, you know? It might mean something to them to know that you're feeling for them.
Man, I ain't got nothing to say.
Just say what's in your heart.
Church deacon? That was thick.
Got good to me, what can I say? It's sad enough with the kids being orphaned and everything.
Photo was from Bunk's desk.
They're yours? - Yeah, afraid so.
Good thing they look like their mama.
Maurice Levy just posted.
He's by the elevators.
The defense never rests.
Shame on you, McNulty.
Dragging me from the Levy family preserve on a Friday night.
My apologies.
Yvette made brisket.
Good? - When served hot.
One or two? Your client.
What the fuck! Stop writing! Now! - I'm just- - Shut up! He calls his lawyer, that's supposed to be the end of the interview.
Your client gave no statement, we took no statement.
He just decided, voluntarily, to write a letter to the victim's family.
To say that- - Shut up! - Any charge here? - No charge.
Good, get up.
Go! Walk! Listen to me, you don't say anything you don't do anything, you don't write anything.
Do you hear me? Shut up! How many times do I have to tell you people the same fucking thing? What the fuck is that? Armoire.
Louis Quatorze.
I mean, what is it, a toy? Some of you I know.
Some of you I will know.
If you've ever worked with me before, you know I don't want cowboy shit and I don't want surprises.
The task is Avon Barksdale, and Avon Barksdale only.
No sidetrips, no sprawl.
Primary investigators are Greggs from my unit and- Greggs from my unit and McNulty from Homicide.
They keep the file.
On the street, we work partners.
Greggs and Sydnor.
Herc and Carver.
McNulty's with Santangelo, Mahone and Polk.
Pryzbylewski and Freamon.
To start with, we got nine- How's that? Did that get it? What? Do you hear me? What? To start with, we have nine or ten open homicide files to work back through for leads.
McNulty and Santangelo, they're on that already.
Herc, Carver, Sydnor, and me, we'll be targeting street dealers and rolling them back up at Barksdale's people.
Polk and Mahone are available to run down specific leads.
Freamon, Pryzbylewski, are gonna start in-office on clerical duty.
You need a prosecutor- - No, turn the shit off! What? You need a prosecutor.
Rhonda Pearlman from Narcotics is assigned.
Now, we don't have enough desks yet, so we gotta share- - Y'all from Purchasing? - No.
Like I was saying, we've been promised some computers and surveillance equipment.
Questions? - Yeah, who signs the overtime slips? No OT, unless prior authorization.
A case goes from red to black by way of green, Lieutenant.
You people bring me something that needs OT you'll get OT until then, live on your fucking salaries.
"I'm very sorry for your father.
If I could've stopped it, I would have.
" What can you do with this? Nothing legally.
He doesn't put himself in, or anyone else for that matter.
You can't read that letter and think that man was killed for any other reason than he was a witness.
Why apologize at all if you got nothing to do with it? We lost a state's witness.
Even in Baltimore, that's supposed to mean something, right? Just go to the deputy, show him what's what and let's put something real together.
This case needs informants.
It needs long-term surveillance.
And eventually, it's gonna need a Title 3 wiretap.
Most of all, it needs police who know how to work those things.
You think it's good for business to put it out on the street that our witnesses get killed? You think it's not on the street already? No grandstanding, no red balls.
Like I said, we get in and out.
Aunt June.
Yeah, I hope you're hungry.
Starving.
Hey, Dee! What's up, baby? - That your uncle? - Yeah.
I thought he'd look different.
My man, Dee.
What's up, man? This the little man? Yo, you see how shorty favor your nephew here? What's up, little man? You ain't gonna be able to deny that child.
You wanna come to me? I know you tryin' to come to me.
Been napping.
Yeah? Just woke up.
You got a grip, let me see your grip.
C'mon, give us a twirl, let's take a look.
What you looking at? - Go fix her a hot plate.
All right.
Put everything on it.
She's the skinniest thing in here.
Come on, girl, we gonna hook you up.
Don't let that fool you, she can eat, man.
How y'all doing? You doing good? - Yeah, we all right.
She want me to move in, I'm thinking about it.
Let's walk.
Here you come.
You gonna take my man from me? Yeah.
Be careful with my little soldier.
Got a name for that one? - No.
But he's one of the boys they use in the stairwell.
What about him? - That's Little Man.
He's muscle.
You know his real name? - Cl? - Yeah.
You need some privacy? - No, it's all right.
He's cool.
What's with the hat? Go ahead, tell him, Bubbles.
I go down the way with some hats that I'm selling.
If someone is someone you need to know I put the red hat on them and Kima here take the pictures.
If they in the mix, they get another color.
If they ain't shit, they don't get shit.
Everyone in the hat's part of Barksdale's crew? At the Terrace.
We haven't hit the low-rises yet.
That's sharp.
I like that.
Bubbles does not forget a face.
Ain't so good with names, but, you know, faces I keep in my head.
I used to take him down to Escape Unit, let him look through the warrant books.
He'd call me up that night, telling me to go to this corner, that corner.
Yeah, paid $25 a pop.
That's good money.
Yeah.
How much does the hat routine pay? Nothing.
We free on this.
Motherfuckers beat my boy down.
Who? Little hoppers in the low-rises.
Who's your boy? I got a friend.
Younger white boy.
Used to come down to the corners, real green.
I was schooling him, you know? What happened? - They stomped him.
You see it? Fuck a man like that up for a couple dollars, you know? He still at University, tubes all up in his nose.
Can't say but a fucking word or two.
But you know, that's how it goes, right? How you feeling, Bubbles? Restless.
Yeah, I could tell.
What the fuck? Can you hook a nigger up with $10 then till tomorrow? I mean, you know, just to carry me, Kima.
Bubbles.
Obliged.
Stay out of the projects the next couple of days just to be safe.
Girl's always fretting over me.
Change it up, Bubs.
Yeah, yeah.
Go Eastside.
Yeah, yeah.
$20? - You gonna spoil him with that shit.
I respect the work.
They used your name, Stringer, Wee-Bey Savino, Peanut They knew a lot of names.
They knew a lot.
But you didn't say nothing? Shit, man, I don't know nothing.
What was you writing then? Yo, they was talking about the man who got killed and his kids, they asked me to write.
What you got to do with them, Dee? - Yeah, that's what I said.
Then they cried about how the kids ain't doing so good.
I'm like, it ain't gonna hurt for me to say I'm sorry the man got killed.
Why the fuck you gotta say you're sorry? Motherfuckers tried to put your ass in the stir.
Yeah, but it didn't turn out that way.
You know, that's what I'm saying, it's a shame that y'all I'm saying, it's a shame what happened to that man, all right? 'Cause he didn't do anything but come off the elevator when I was doing that thing that I was doing.
What you think, cuz? About what? I'm saying, what you think about what happened to the man? You think we killed the motherfucker? Speak your mind.
Man, I don't know.
Exactly.
You don't know, and you don't need to know.
And if we did, we had a reason.
And if we didn't, we had a reason.
But either way, you ain't got shit to do with it.
It ain't on you, cuz.
You feel me? It ain't on you.
Now, if you get jacked again I don't want to hear shit about you writing nothing to no one.
Got it? - Yeah.
Come on, let's have some good times and get some ribs before they done ate all the ribs up.
This case isn't shit, Carv.
I know it.
We're dancing around with this motherfucker, typing shit out taking pictures of assholes in hats.
What the fuck is that? - It's bullshit.
I say we go down there right now.
Right fucking now.
We go into those towers, and we let them know.
I'm serious.
You got to let these motherfuckers know who you are.
You coming? - I'm with you.
Carv? What the hell? Let's do it.
Come on.
Shut it down.
Five-O.
Five-O, five-O, break out.
Yo, come here, man.
Come here, where you going? Don't act like you don't know me.
Get your hands up.
Put that down.
Drop that shit! Kiss the fucking ground! - Put your hands up.
Don't look at me like I ain't talking English.
You got a needle on you? Got anything in here that's gonna stick me? No? What's that? What you got in your pockets? You know what? Put your pants down, man.
Put your pants down and get down on the ground.
Get down on the fucking ground! All right, spread your shit out.
Nice shoes.
Think a happy thought.
Why don't you go somewhere else with that bullshit? No-good motherfuckers.
Stay down, man, stay down.
Y'all can let Barksdale and them know who owns these towers.
'Cause we're coming back.
I'm sick of this shit.
Kiss my ass! We roll out, come back in an hour, catch everybody dirty.
You'll see how that goes.
That's bullshit, man.
Yo, stay down, man.
That's fucked up.
Man ain't did nothing.
Want something? - Move, shitbird.
I ain't doing nothing.
Really? I got nothing for you.
My eye, my eye.
Who you gonna eyefuck now? Are you serious? You bleed on my car? Don't bleed on my car.
Get your shit off my car.
What the fuck's the matter with you? Got a visual? Fuck.
Get the radio.
Son of a bitch! Shots fired, shots fired.
Officers need assistance.
I'm hit! Signal 13.
Officer down, Officer down! Shit! - Hello? - You seen the paper? - What? - The newspaper, get it.
Hey, kids.
Oh, no.
You happy now, bitch? McNulty! Where in fuck is he? He's detailed, Major, to Narcotics- I fucking know where he's detailed.
I fucking already know that! Yes, sir.
Where is he right now? - I can page him, sir.
Move that fucking desk out of my unit.
I do not want that fucking man's desk in my unit.
That's Crutchfield's desk.
Crutchfield's? McNulty sits here.
What the fuck was that about? - Did you see today's paper? - Just sports.
You gotta check out the front page.
What do you think they'll do to him? - Let me tell you something.
If he gets caught with his dick up the ass of the deputy's wife he's still gonna have more of a career than if they find out he's behind that story.
Lieutenant.
I saw the story in the paper.
I want you to know I had nothing to do - They jumped us, Boss.
Who? Fucking project niggers.
What are you doing here at 2:00 in the morning? Field interviews, sir, police work.
Police work? - Yeah.
I got a 14-year-old in critical but stable condition at University and two witnesses who say one of you princes cold-cocked him with the butt-end of a pistol.
No, sir.
I got his mother over at IID filing a formal brutality charge which for Herc will make an even four in the last two years.
None sustained.
But all of them true.
We thought that- I got one less Crown Vic than I had last night.
I'm out two Kevlar vests that burned in the car two hand-held radios, a shotgun and I'm about to lose this idiot here for a week or two of medical.
And for what? What did you all learn when you went to the Terrace at 2:00 in the morning to conduct field interviews? What valuable information did we acquire from this situation? IID is gonna be on all three of you by afternoon and if you don't get a story straight by then you're gonna have a file thick enough to see the light of a trial board.
Now tell me, who cold-cocked the kid? Me.
Why? He pissed me off.
No, Officer Pryzbylewski, he did not piss you off.
He made you fear for your safety and that of your fellow officers.
I'm guessing now, but maybe he was seen to pick up a bottle and menace officers Hauk and Carver both of whom had already sustained injury from flying projectiles.
Rather than use deadly force in such a situation maybe you elected to approach the youth, ordering him to drop the bottle.
Maybe when he raised the bottle in a threatening manner you used a Kel-Light, not the handle of your service weapon to incapacitate the suspect.
Go practice.
You fuck the bullshit up when you talk to Internal I can't fix it, you're on your own.
Push the arraignments back to 3:00.
And the Gillette case? The Gillette trial goes back on the move docket.
Come on, walk with me.
I'm running late.
It wasn't me.
The story quoted you.
Reporter has the story confirmed when he calls me about the quote.
What am I gonna say? No, he wasn't a witness? No, he didn't testify in my court last week? What? You don't think it's around about the witness? Lawyers, clerks, jurors, everybody talks.
I'm in the shit here, Your Honor.
What can I tell you? I called the deputy, not the newspapers.
I gotta run.
You should have hung them.
If I hang them, I hang myself.
I'm the man in charge, remember? Besides, you don't give your people up to IID.
You don't do that.
Even if they put a 14-year-old kid into Critical Care? This case, it's just Get out of it.
How do I do that? - I don't know.
But you can't lose if you don't play.
I always heard it that you can't win if you don't play.
The department puts you on a case it doesn't want.
You're given people that are useless or untrustworthy.
Correct.
If you push too hard, and any shit hits the fan you'll be blamed for it.
Correct.
If you don't push hard enough, and there's no arrest, you'll be blamed for that, too.
Correct.
The game is rigged.
But you cannot lose if you do not play.
In the hole, y'all.
Hey! Hey, you fuckheads! Hey, police! - Hello.
Lieutenant Daniels? Yeah.
Who was that? It was the duty officer down at University hospital.
What happened? - He's blind in one eye.
Who? The kid.
The
Yo, the shit is late.
They're still vialing up.
Usually come off the train street-ready, but this time they gotta vial.
Y'all got any testers, man? - Yeah, later.
Later? Got any testers, man? Nigger, it ain't even 9:00, and you fiending on it.
Get the fuck out of here, man.
Damn.
Why you act like that? What, for these junkie motherfuckers? So you just gonna take his money all day and treat him like a dog? - How I'm supposed to treat him? - I don't know.
But you ain't got to punk him like that.
He punked himself.
He's a goddamn drug addict.
And you a goddamn drug dealer.
So? So what? What, the customer's always right? We're in the projects.
The customer be fucked up.
You can't give these niggers shit, man.
Why not? Why can't you? Shit, everything else in the world get sold without people taking advantage.
Scamming, lying, doing each other dirty.
Why has it got to be that way with this? - 'Cause they dope fiends.
Yeah, but the game ain't gotta be played like that.
You can't tell me this shit can't get done without people beating on each other killing each other, doing each other like dogs.
Without all that you ain't got 5-0 here on our backs every five minutes - throwing us around and shit.
Shit, man.
You think 5-0 would care about niggers getting high? In the projects? Man, 5-0 be down here about the bodies.
That's what they be down here about, the bodies.
Squires, young squires.
What you want, nigger? A little bag of styles, man, a little bag of styles for you.
Check it out.
Only $5, what's up with that? $5 make you a gallant motherfucker, right there, boy.
Him, we know.
What are we facing from the riot? Three witnesses' statements all of them saying the officer's assault on the youth was unprovoked.
You know how that goes, Commissioner.
People's idea of police brutality is whenever we win a fight.
What does the state's attorney say? He says it goes to a grand jury.
That's him doing Pontius Pilate.
The grand jury doesn't indict, he looks clean for passing the buck.
And if they do indict? - They won't.
Criminal histories on our three witnesses one longer than the next.
Drugs, weapons, assault more drugs.
Shitbirds throwing dirt at good police.
Just the same, Lieutenant I want you to rethink whatever tactic led you to send three plainclothes officers to do field interviews at the high-rises at 2:00 in the morning.
Yes, sir.
I take it your people have union counsel? Yes, sir.
Sir, I would request that pending the grand jury review Officer Pryzbylewski be placed on administrative leave.
I can use him in-office, but we shouldn't have him on the street until the grand jury signs off.
That's putting our tail between our legs.
I think our official stance has to be he did nothing wrong out there.
A 14-year-old is half-blind.
And two of ours were injured as well.
Goddamn right.
They were fucking shooting at us out there.
Bobby, what do you think? Keep him off the streets until it clears the courthouse.
Okay, then, we'll wait on the grand jury.
Lieutenant.
A moment, please.
What happened out there? Did you know they were in the high-rises without backup? If I tell you yes I screwed up.
If I tell you no I'm putting my men in the jackpot.
Do you still want me to answer? I screwed up, sir.
Good man, willing to take one for the company.
To hell with the company.
I'm defending my own people here, that's all.
What Major Valchek means to say is that he's grateful that you extended your support on behalf of Officer Pryzbylewski.
Fuck-up that he is.
He should be off the street.
What can I say? The kid needs a little guidance, a little supervision.
Stan here thought that if he got a young officer back on the street where he might start over- A new unit, a new lieutenant.
You know, that it might bring him around.
I understand he messed up here.
I understand that.
Which is why I'm saying to you I owe you for walking him through this grand jury thing.
And to compensate, Southeastern is sending you two new unmarked units, and a surveillance van.
Plus, you need manpower while these guys are busy with this IID thing all you do is ask.
Lieutenant.
So I've got suction with you, Valchek? That's what I'm saying.
Deputy, always a pleasure.
A necessary evil.
What? - Valchek.
Is it insubordinate if I ask what's so necessary? Thanks for not cutting Pryzbylewski loose.
If you had, the department would be caught between Valchek and city hall.
I owe you for that.
This Barksdale he's dug in.
It may take more than buy-bust.
And since it's been in the press about the witness- It's not an issue.
Keep it a tight little circle.
Give me three weeks of good street work and you'll see this through.
A couple of felony warrants, a little dope on the table.
That's all we need here.
Under no circumstances is it accurate to suggest that this particular homicide was the result of the victim having been a witness in an earlier case.
Reports to the contrary are without factual merit.
Are you saying that you know definitely that this man was not killed because he testified? We think that I mean, that is we're looking into the possibility that Mr.
Gant was involved in a street dispute.
Which, of course, would have nothing to do with his being a witness in an unrelated case that concluded weeks ago.
But you haven't developed a suspect at this time? No, we haven't.
Bunk, shame on you, lad.
What did you expect him to do? I don't know, grab the mike shove Rawls to the ground, declare that all of Baltimore should rise as one because they're murdering witnesses in cold blood.
That sounds more like one of your moves.
Been working on him two weeks, we don't even have a photo.
It's fucking embarrassing.
Hey, Pat.
We got a job for you guys to try to run down.
What is it? We need a photo of this guy, Barksdale.
We need to know what he looks like.
So go down to the B of I.
You see, that's the problem, guys.
Barksdale's never been arrested as an adult so we don't really have a B of I photo.
He had his juvenile record expunged, so there's no photo there either.
Then you're fucked.
Yeah, we are.
But seeing as we all came into work today, I thought, let's try something different.
We know from his mother's social service record that Barksdale grew up in Franklin Terrace, right? It occurred to me being vaguely familiar with the high-rises of West Baltimore that the housing project began to take photos of every registered resident as a security measure.
Am I correct, Detective Greggs? - Yeah.
So you want us to go down to the housing department - and pull his photo.
Excellent.
You know, you and I, we think as one.
We're like two horses together in a harness.
Why don't you fucking do it yourself? Sure, if you don't mind sitting in my desk, reviewing homicide folders taking meticulous notes, trying to run down a few new leads.
It's boring, painstaking work, but if you don't want to travel to the housing department, I'll switch with you.
Fuck it, Patrick.
Let's take a ride.
That was inspiring.
I'm a leader of men.
What's up with shop? - No re-up.
Why not? - 'Cause we out of red caps.
Stink say we gonna have a new package tomorrow.
New package? Yeah, man, this weak-ass stepped-on shit we got out here get these fiends agitated.
Look at them, they still buying it, though.
Yes, they're buying twice as much and only getting half as high.
What was that? Castle can't move like that.
Castle move up and down or sideways like.
No, we ain't playing that.
Look at the board, we're playing checkers.
Checkers? - Yeah, checkers.
Why're y'all playing checkers on a chess set? Why do you give a shit? Man, we ain't got no checkers.
Yeah, but chess is a better game.
So? No, hold up.
Y'all don't know how to play chess, do you? - So? - So, nothing, man.
I'll teach y'all if you want to learn.
Come on, man.
No, come on.
We're right in the middle of a game.
Chill out, I want to see this.
Y'all can't be playing no checkers on no chessboard.
All right, man.
Look, check it, it's simple.
See this? This is the kingpin.
And he the man.
You get the other dude's king, you got the game.
But he's trying to get your king, too, so you gotta protect it.
Now the king, he moves one space any direction he damn choose, 'cause he's the king.
Like this, all right? But he ain't got no hustle but the rest of these motherfuckers on the team they got his back.
And they run so deep, he really ain't gotta do shit.
Like your uncle.
Yeah, like my uncle.
You see this? This is the queen.
She's smart and she's fierce.
She moves any way she wants, as far as she wants.
And she is the go-get-shit-done piece.
Remind me of Stringer.
And this, over here, is the castle.
It's like the stash.
It moves like this.
And like this.
Dog, stash don't move, man.
Come on, think.
How many times we move the stash house this week? And every time we move the stash we got to move a little muscle with it to protect it.
True, you're right.
All right.
What about them little bald-headed bitches right there? These right here.
These are the pawns.
They're like the soldiers.
They move like this, one space forward only except when they fight.
Then it's like or like this.
And they like the front lines.
They be out in the field.
So how do you get to be the king? It ain't like that.
See, the king stays the king, all right? Everything stays who he is except for the pawns.
Now if a pawn makes it all the way down to the other dude's side he gets to be queen.
And like I said, the queen ain't no bitch.
She got all the moves.
All right, so if I make it to the other end, I win? If you catch the other dude's king and trap it, then you win.
But if I make it to the end I'm top dog.
No, it ain't like that, look.
The pawns, man, in the game they get capped quick.
They be out of the game early.
Unless they're some smart-ass pawns.
Nagras.
Can you fucking believe this? This shit is prehistoric.
What else have they got down there in Property? Eight-tracks? Victrolas? That fucking department's a joke.
We got to get with the feds somehow.
They got light-weights, wireless micro-recorders.
Yeah, DEA got those.
If I wear this on a warm day, they're gonna know.
Even if they do a half-assed search, I'm done.
Nagras.
Jesus.
You can't send his ass into the projects with this shit taped to him.
That ain't gonna play.
I'm saying.
McNulty and the girl the lezzer from narcotics, they've got the file.
Who are you partnered with? - McNulty.
But he don't have shit to do with me and I don't want nothing to do with him neither.
Major, I'm a fifth wheel on a car that's going nowhere.
Bring me home.
Soon enough.
Look, you're my eyes and ears in this mess, right? And I don't want no more surprises, like that newspaper article.
If McNulty's planning any more bullshit like that I got to be able to tell the deputy before the shit flies.
Then you come home with a favor in your pocket.
How bad is that? Lieutenant.
You get Carver and Prez back tomorrow, but Prez is in-office.
No police powers, no street work, nothing.
If the building catches fire, he stays in the office.
What about Herc? - Medical, until Monday at least.
I wonder what you gotta do to get thrown off this police force.
Keep on with some of your shit, you just might find out.
Where are the fucking run sheets? Behind the board.
You all go for a taste? We got your picture, don't you fucking worry, McNulty.
This is Barksdale? Avon Barksdale.
I don't think so.
Read my lips.
Avon fucking Barksdale.
His name's on the form in the file.
Excuse me for giving a shit but I can't help but notice this is a middle-aged white man.
You want something different, you give me another name.
That's the only Avon Barksdale in the housing department files.
You got your smokes? Have a nice fucking day.
Maybe he's white.
No, I mean, really.
What do we really know? "Avon Barksdale.
"31 years of age.
"Born Provident Hospital, West Baltimore "to Willette Jackson Barksdale "father unknown.
"Educated Baltimore city schools.
" Address is in the same public housing where he controls the drug trade.
No flash, no profile.
Pretty much comes up out of nowhere.
No work history.
No tax information we can look at.
No cars in his name, no driver's license.
No kids.
No priors either.
Yeah, here's this vague CI information that states he stays in various apartments out in the county.
Addresses undetermined, of course.
He moves from girlfriend to girlfriend might have another girlfriend in New York.
He likes to work out and he used to box Golden Gloves when he was younger.
I've been working on him for two weeks and the truth is, we don't know shit.
Golden Gloves? How did you hear that? I don't know.
I think I got that from a DEA File.
Or from a Cl who claimed to know him way back when.
So you write everything down? Yeah, everything.
Goddamn bomb, y'all.
Blue-tops, blue-tops.
Double shorts.
In the hole, man.
Got blue-tops.
Looking for blues? In the hole, y'all.
Blue-tops.
Red-tops.
Red-tops.
Two for $10.
Blue-tops, blue-tops.
Keep your jab moving.
Move with your right.
Left, right, left, right.
Two punches.
I got a few questions I wanna ask you, Mack.
Keep your hands moving, work to the body some.
So who's your target? - Barksdale.
Who? Avon Barksdale.
Never heard of him.
That's the thing.
This guy's got the Westside projects locked up.
He's tied to maybe a dozen murders, he's completely off the radar.
Avon, what was it? - Barksdale.
If you say so.
DEA has a couple of pages on him from NADDIS entries.
Nothing in NCIC, no adult arrests.
I've been working drugs for the Bureau since '98.
I can tell you, we got nothing on him that I know.
This little thing is the smile of the week.
Watch this.
What? - What was that? Get the door.
It's a career case.
Not that my bosses give a damn at this point.
Why not? Why not? All of them mopes in bracelets and not one of them named Osama.
I owe you, brother.
What do you need? A couple of lightweight body mikes.
Wireless, remote taping capability.
That's all? Where I come from, we're just happy to be in the 20th century.
Who's running the case, so I can tell my squad supervisor? Daniels, out of Narcotics.
All right, no problem.
Shit! Fucking rain, man.
All right, y'all know what the fuck this is.
Up against the wall, hurry the fuck up.
Come on, let's go.
Go on to the back.
Ain't got time for this shit.
Got some red-tops, some testers.
Get them around the corner.
Hurry up, take them around.
What the fuck you looking at me for? Get your ass around the corner.
I want that shit, that's good.
Keep it moving.
Man, you see that? - Yeah.
Third from the end.
That's the stash.
Some real raggedy-ass shit here, boy.
Very sloppy.
How old are your kids? Mike is 8, Sean's 10.
That's the hard part.
Yeah, that's the hard part, but you know - How often do you get to see them? - Every other weekend.
Trying to get more, but she's fighting me.
Why would she fight you on that? - She's getting even.
Getting even? You must've been fucking around.
I'm just saying.
You're right.
It's always the case.
A woman wants to get even, there's something extra there.
How come you got all this wisdom and your life's so fucking hard? I've been wondering on that myself.
How about you? You ever been married? What'd I say? - If you ain't gonna say anything, I am.
What? If you're a dog, you barking at the wrong pussy.
What, so I'm a dog now? - Meow.
Bubbles.
I date women.
We've got something else in common.
I date women, too.
So pretty much everyone in CID has worked this out but me? There wasn't nothing to figure out.
I told them.
I guess I missed the press conference.
It's better that than to have every police on three shifts hounding you every goddamned day.
Cops are dogs.
Yeah.
It's not like I was walking around waving some dyke flag in the air, or some shit.
I know I look like I could go either way.
Lord, yes, you do.
Yes, you do.
It was something I had to put out there to get through the day.
I should've known.
Should've known what? I worked with one other female police officer who was worth a damn, only one.
A lesbian.
Yeah.
In the beginning, you're in your radio car alone, working your post.
Most women aren't getting out of that car.
Right.
Not without side partners showing up.
They're intimidated, physically.
They gotta be.
You weren't? Yeah, at first.
But I'm talking about some old straight-out-of-the-academy-type scared you know what I'm saying? I wasn't about to stay scared.
You know, you get your ass kicked once or twice you realize it's not the end of the world, right? Most of the women, they don't want to believe that.
Some of the men, too.
They don't even want to go there.
You think 'cause you're gay? - I don't know.
But is there any other fucking way to police? All I know is I just love the job.
That'll be $3.
20.
Keep the change.
Thanks, have a nice day.
Dee coming up.
Where's it all go? The money.
Where do all the money go? $22,000 or $24,000, give or take.
From the low-rises? Damn, boy! You must have that crew humming.
I don't remember a day we ever got this much from the Courtyard.
It wasn't even check day.
You doing good out there, Dee.
We'll be doing even better when we get that new package.
New package, same as old, man.
Say what? - Ain't no new package.
Just gonna put that same shit out in a different color gelcap is all.
Might spike that shit with some procaine or some caffeine, but otherwise the same.
String, man, people are already coming back on us - telling us that shit is weak.
I know, the shit is weak.
But shit is weak all over.
The thing is, no matter what we call heroin, it's gonna get sold.
The shit is strong, we're gonna sell it.
The shit is weak, we're gonna sell twice as much.
You know why? 'Cause a fiend, he's gonna chase that shit no matter what.
It's crazy, you know? We do worse, and we get paid more.
The government do better, and it don't mean no never mind.
This shit right here, Dee, it's forever.
That's your bonus right there.
And you buy something that you wouldn't otherwise.
Thanks, man.
All right.
You remember me? Do I remember you? I was in here the other day, you wanted a drink.
Did I get a drink? - Afraid not.
Then why would I remember you? You want to be remembered, you going about it the wrong way here.
All right.
The usual.
This here's my uncle's place.
You kin to Orlando? No.
Orlando's like the up-front man, you know? My uncle's the money man.
Where you from? - Right here.
Baltimore.
I know Baltimore, but, like, where? You know Turner Station? Down past Dundalk, near the Point.
The Point.
So, you're a country girl.
You mean county.
Where I'm from, the county is the country.
Where is that? So are you working with your uncle? I'm his right hand.
Yes, you is.
You want to ride with us in the van? - No.
Why not? You think it's a waste? Touts and children, that's all you're gonna get.
Bingo.
Where did you get this? Now, look at this piece of shit.
I'm good to go, right? Come here, let me see.
Detective Sydnor's ensemble.
It's the latest in Westside Project wear.
Have your torn cammies by Versace stained sweatshirt by Ralph Lauren.
Where you miked? - Down in my dick, man.
I figure they ain't gonna go down there, right? I don't know, Sydnor, the way you twirling around might be the first place they look.
Fuck you.
I ain't showered in two days, I ain't shaved in four.
Right now, I am one ripe, nasty son of a bitch.
Bubbs.
What you think? This your man? Yeah.
Is he low-bottom enough for you? Clothes is tore down enough but he could use a little bit more stains, more dirt.
What's this here, man? - It's my wedding ring.
Shit, you married to the needle, boy.
That shit been pawned off, if you for real.
It's a dead giveaway.
You could stand to lose about 20 pounds, some yellow in your teeth fresh bleeds on your hands.
So maybe I should go out and shoot up dope for a year or two, right? - Come back when I can carry the look off? - I'm just saying, man.
The more tore down you look, the better.
You going down in them towers, they gonna check everything.
How about the shoes? I know you ain't got no problem with the shoes, fucked up as they are.
Let me see the shoes, man.
See? You walking down them alleys of the projects you stepping on the dead soldiers.
Dead soldiers? - Yeah, empty vials.
You can't walk down a Baltimore street without them cracking underneath your feet.
You want to know if a fiend is for real check the bottom of his shoes.
Okay.
Have him dance on some empties before we go out there.
Get us killed.
He hurt your feelings? A little bit.
Shit.
Four hand-to-hands two to me, two to Bubbs, with me close enough to mark it.
From who? - Kids, mostly.
Young-ass hoppers.
It's a start.
They're pretty tight out here, Kima.
If you don't hand no money to nobody that matters you don't get no product from nobody that matters.
You want to go back in? Shit, we copped from every crew out here.
Ain't we supposed to go off somewhere and fire this shit up? Yeah, let's get the fuck out of here.
Well, now.
Did you get to see where the money went after you handed it off? No.
Nothing but touts and runners here.
But then again, you told us so.
I didn't say that.
But as a matter of fact - Everyone else roll out? - I- You were upstairs and out of pocket, so I cut them loose.
Just as well.
I'll give them the news tomorrow.
What happened? I told the Deputy we had a few hand-to-hands.
Low-level people.
He wants us to put everything into search-and-seizures and hit the projects Wednesday afternoon.
Lieutenant.
I know.
Does he think that's what gets us Avon Barksdale? The buys we made, they don't even go past the courtyards.
Scratch together everything we got from the hand-to-hands and shape it into PC for the warrants.
A few locations, at least.
But we don't even know what doors to hit.
A few apartments in the low-rises that we've seen used for stash.
Then we write on those.
Lieutenant, these guys change stash houses every other day.
Look, the man upstairs wants to see a circus.
A couple of days from now, I got to show him three rings.
Christ.
I'm sorry.
We gotta jump.
What, is the Deputy Ops stupid? - No.
This shit is fucking stupid.
Not if we bring in some arrests he takes them to the judge, he figures the judge goes away.
And then he buries the fucking case.
What are we gonna do? There's nothing you can do, except pound out some probable cause.
We're gonna be here all fucking night.
I'm not.
Where the fuck you got to go? - No, I mean, I can't.
I'm not gonna help them gut the case.
I'm sorry.
I know he's your lieutenant.
You gotta do what you gotta do.
But I can't swallow this shit anymore.
Why are you here? - I'm thinking about something.
Can I come in? - No.
No? What's the matter, McNulty? No one ever tells you "no"? Sorry.
I should've called.
How do you clone a beeper? - What? - That's what I need to know.
You show up at my door at 9:00 to ask me that? They're using pagers, right? Every other drug dealer has a cell phone, and these guys are all on pagers.
What do you want to do? Bunk and me, when we jack up the Barksdale kid he's got a Motorola pager.
We give it back, so as not to spook him.
You want to clone it? Can we do that without a subpoena to the pager company? Read that.
What is it? - Affidavit from a state police case.
A judge signs something like that, you can clone a beeper.
Christ.
Probable cause, coupled with an exhaustion argument.
You've got to show the judge that other investigative methods have failed.
You'll also need a supervisor who wants you to clone a suspect's pager knowing that it might lead to who knows what else pen registers, wiretaps.
Daniels will come around.
Daniels will have your ass.
Thanks.
That's it? - What? No.
Let me understand.
You're married, and a date's a room at the Best Western.
Now you're single, and a date is you coming over unannounced to learn the legal requisites for a pager intercept.
Pretty much.
No.
Okay, I hear you.
You? As if you give a shit.
You're an asshole, McNulty.
What the fuck did I do? - How much more to that pack? -50, 60.
Re-up's late.
Have Wallace hit Stinkum on his pager again.
You want something from carry-out? Yeah, lake trout sub.
Pay up.
Damn.
You asked, I thought you was treating.
You thought wrong, I ain't no bank.
You stingy like one.
Just make sure you give me enough.
No mayo, extra hot, something to drink.
All right.
He's going for food? - Yes.
Why didn't you tell me? My stomach's growling like a motherfucker.
Starve, nigger.
Man, shit.
Re-up's here.
Stink, what up? What's up, bro? 10 minutes.
-10? - Yeah.
All right.
Who's there? Y'all got my back, you heard? Get the fuck in there.
Get your ass down.
Sit your stupid ass down.
Get the fuck down.
Shit, stay there, bitch.
Get down, get the fuck down, motherfucker.
Where it at? - Ain't nothing here.
Where it at, man? Shit! Fuck, my leg! Where it at, shorty? - Kitchen, under the sink.
Go on and get that.
Two G-packs.
Let's roll.
Just two? - Come on.
What the- Stupid.
Shit! Let's get the fuck out of here.
Shit! Come on, Poot.
Fuck! - So, your man saw them get jacked? - Yeah, part of it.
And he gets the tag number? - Good man, that Bubbles.
Listen up.
Western uniforms will meet us in the Mount Claire parking lot.
We start there, and we don't stop until we take the doors.
I want their lookouts to have as little chance as possible.
What's with you? My office.
I'm not going.
You're insubordinate? I'm not jumping out on something that will harm the case.
You want to write me up on that, you can.
You think I want this? I got the Deputy Ops on my ass for this shit.
Now you show me up in front of the whole detail.
I don't mean to show anybody up.
Get your vest on.
No.
I got police work to do.
If you felt this way, why didn't you call in sick? I'm not sick.
Yeah, you are.
Give me a 95 on why you are physically unable to participate in today's action.
What, I'm gonna lie so you can save face? Come on, write it up.
"I can't jump out with my unit because my tummy hurts.
" I'm not gonna help you gut this case.
If you want to pretend to be police, you go ahead.
Let's do it.
I'm up.
You're on medical.
I'm up, boss.
Give him a vest.
No, motherfucker.
It ain't just up to Stinkum to be muscle.
You got the Pit.
Your people supposed to be ready for the re-up.
You supposed to be steady for him.
But where you at? You in the goddamn sandwich shop.
You got $20,000, Dee, coming into your shop and you ain't even around to see that shit right.
Look, I thought re-ups- No, thinking was what you wasn't doing, and now we look like bitches.
You feel me? We got to come back on them.
And you can't even tell me shit about who they was.
One of them was named Omar.
Omar? - Omar, that's the name I heard.
And they had a white van.
Yeah, I saw the van- - What kind of van? - Five-0.
Wrong door.
Yeah? Yeah, switched it yesterday.
Let's see your hands.
Get out of the way.
Let's see your hands.
Up, motherfucker, up.
Turn around.
All the way up.
Police.
Put your hands up.
Put them up! Turn your monkey ass around.
Put your hands at your back.
Why you fucking with us, man? Come on, man, damn, I wasn't even doing shit.
Come on, man.
Cuff that one, and that one.
Motherfucker, how's that feel? You fucked up now.
You feel it, right? Why you ain't swinging? Motherfucker.
Go ahead, play that cowboy shit, motherfucker.
Hold him down.
Hold his arms! Spread your legs.
Don't make me kick your ass, too.
Come on! Get him.
You don't hit a cop.
What's wrong with you, boy? You wanna hit a cop? If you'd been here earlier, you'd have seen a beating.
Clean.
Not a fucking thing in there.
Pick any door in the low-rises.
What are the chances? Channel 2 wants to know if she can film some of the places we raided.
She says whatever we got, she'll put on film.
Whatever we got? - Drugs, weapons.
We ain't got shit.
I can tell you were never in patrol.
Right.
Sorry I'm late.
What's up? I didn't want to tell you in front of the girl, her being from Narcotics and all.
Daniels is dirty.
What? The guy running your case, he's got dirt on him.
You know this? Your own agency came to us with concerns about him last year.
Integrity questions.
They didn't want to go to Internal Affairs.
That office leaks like a sieve.
Plus they couldn't handle a case if their lives depended on it.
That, too.
You looked at Daniels specifically? We did a two-month assets investigation.
The man has a couple hundred thousand more in liquid assets than any police lieutenant should ever have.
Maybe he goes to Atlantic City.
Seriously.
You look at his background? Maybe he's got other sources of income.
Maybe.
We never got the chance to go further.
Why not? We went to your Deputy for Operations and told him what we had.
You took it to Burrell? - He says, "We'll take it from here.
" So, we backed away and waited for something to happen.
And waited.
That was a year ago? Maybe more.
And that fucker's still the Supervisor for Narcotics.
So, you tell me what the hell's going on.
Anyway, if he's running your case, I just thought you'd want to know.
Thanks.

Fuck me.
I'm dying here.
Let me get on the other side, work it from there.
One, two.
Three.
Three.
Shit.
Need help? Right.
On three, motherfuckers.
One, two, three.
I'm embarrassed for you all.
Yo, Herc, I catch my breath, I'm gonna shoot the drawers off this bitch.
It's caught on something, Lieutenant.
Get over there with Carver.
One, two, you know what to do.
What the fuck? Jesus.
My ass is kicked.
I could move it a bit when I was alone.
It must've got wedged in the door somehow.
Desk is empty, right? - Yeah.
You checked it? At this rate, we're never gonna get it in.
What? In? In.
Unbelievable, unbe-fucking-lievable.
Christ.
This case is a bit humble for you.
I know it doesn't look like much on paper, but see what you can do.
Making new friends? - Not yet.
I spent the morning down in juvenile court but the kids know they can't be hurt with a street-weight charge so didn't get much there.
You tried? Nothing like being told, "Fuck off," by a 14-year-old.
Right here's our best shot.
Him? Hand-to-hand with Bubbles, and he's carrying a long-ass sheet.
All right.
Who's first? Ms.
Dawkins? State versus Marvin Browning, Your Honor.
One count distribution of a controlled substance, to wit, heroin and one count distribution of a controlled substance, to wit, cocaine.
Quantity? - One gelcap and one vial, Your Honor.
Bail recommendation? State requests defendant be held, as he is part of a continuing investigation and further, is subject to a mandatory five years without parole because of prior convictions.
Will your office be seeking the mandatory five in this case? Absolutely, Your Honor.
Very well, I'll take that into consideration.
Got his attention, at least.
Lieutenant, come have a taste.
Come on, we're celebrating.
Patrick's going out on medical.
Sweet, sweet Cervical 6.
My shoulder's numb, my arm's numb.
My fingers feel like they belong to some son of a bitch in the next county.
This is my ticket out of this rat-shit department.
have to wait for my 30.
I'm gone.
Fucking yo did you a favor.
Kid hit like a mule, I've got to say.
You should take a couple of days.
Think it over before you put in papers.
My brother-in-law's got a video store out on Moravia.
Does $6,000 a week straight rentals, another $8,000 in porn.
He needs a partner.
But they take that off the top of a medical pension.
If you report it as income, they do.
Do I look that fucking stupid? Have a nice life, Lieutenant.
What's with you? You gonna miss me, Augs? What the fuck am I going to do, Paddy? Tell you what.
What do you say we go out together? - What do you mean? I mean, it only hurts for a minute.
And it doesn't have to be line-of-duty either.
I'm serious.
You know those stairs where they send us down to the basement? - Yeah.
It's dark down there.
You go up eight or nine steps, let go of the rail, take a little jump- - I'd break my fucking neck like that.
You don't break nothing.
You do a little dance on those steps, you're up to two-thirds with me.
And maybe you sue the city, get a little more.
Can't say we don't deserve it.
Five in.
For a one-and-one.
Now, why bang me like that for a one-and-one? Because it's your turn, Mr.
Browning.
Everybody out there gets a turn.
You're all running wild here.
I think a judge might want to take a look at this and slow you all down a mite.
I don't know, Marvin.
I'm looking at your sheet here, and for one thing, it's a little wrong to be calling it a sheet.
More like a book.
Point is, we got the room to get a little crazy on you.
Like she said, it's your turn.
Tell us some stories, it could be somebody else's turn.
Stories.
Avon Barksdale.
Know the name? Every motherfucker up in them towers knows the name.
Myself, I ain't never really had a word with the man.
Stringer Bell, then? Wee-Bey? Savino? Stinkum? C.
C.
O.
? Roc-Roc? Who're you gonna give us, Marvin? You don't say a name soon, you're gonna be courtside.
All right.
All right, what? All right, I'll take the years.
Damn, boy.
You should see the cop.
When you're ready to get up, put that on.
Report to bunk A-7.
A-7.
Don't be later than breakfast.
Who else is up in here? Anybody from Westside? D.
C.
boys, mostly.
Long fucking drive.
Me and you drawing another shit detail.
This ain't a shit detail.
No? I'm in Upper fucking Marlboro, Maryland, and still going south.
Look.
Another cow.
Use your imagination.
This little shitbird, having already been whipped good by us once he sees us, right? And he starts crying like a little bitch because he knows we drove all the way to Prince George's for more of his ass, right? Imagine we jack him up, toss him into a small room and tell him that Detective Mahone is near dead from the sucker punch.
No shit.
The drunk old fuck suddenly slipped into a coma.
And now the Commissioner and Mrs.
Mahone are at his bedside in the ICU.
And we've been ordered to come down here, rip off his scrotum, put it in a jar and drive it back to Baltimore, so it can sit with the fucking bowling trophies behind the bar at the FOP Lodge.
All right? After which fucknuts stops whimpering long enough to just start giving people up, whoever.
Stringer Bell.
Avon Barksdale.
Yeah? - Yeah.
Little prick turns on everybody and we break the case wide open.
Cool.
Right? So, from all them hand-to-hands, nobody flipped? No, that part of town, Barksdale carries more weight than we do.
Just like all these fucking homicides.
Witnesses lying, witnesses paid off, witnesses backing up on their story.
Can you blame them? - Not really.
Every now and then, we visit the projects.
They live there.
Your man's Dee, right? - D'Angelo, yeah.
This one's got a Dee as a possible shooter.
This one connects.
No way.
Yeah? I'm seeing it.
It's Diedre Kresson, one of Keeley's cases.
Come on, Jay, this is a college girl blown up in the kitchen of an apartment up in Northeast.
How does this match with the rest of the Westside mopes? - They don't have cars? - This doesn't match, Jay.
It does.
Take a look at your office report.
A witness puts her with a Dee the night she's aced.
How many Dees do you think there are in the system, Jay? As a street name? Let me ask you something, Jimmy.
How many case files you got that you're putting on Barksdale? - Maybe a dozen.
A dozen cases.
So, how many of those are from our squad? One.
Gerard Bogue.
One case? Your squad's down a man for weeks, Jimmy.
We're gonna be humping your calls, catching your cases hopping around like a one-legged pigtown whore on check day, and for what? So that you can have your big adventure and solve everybody else's cases? Is this what I'm hearing? He's got you, Jimmy.
Where's the love, McNulty? Show me some fucking love.
All right.
Attaboy.
He's my son.
Why don't you just dump this loser on Santangelo? He's supposed to be down here helping us, anyway.
I would if I could find the fucker.
Must have another job, he's gone so much.
What does Daniels have to say about that? - Nothing, I cover for him.
He was out in the wind there all day yesterday, half the day before.
Man, Keeley really dogged this one.
Ain't nothing in here but a 24 and some crime scene photos, and this.
"Tywanda called.
N.
F.
D.
, no last name, no address.
"Claims your victim killed after being visited by a suspect named Dee.
" No further description.
There's a callback number, though.
So, call.
The number you have reached has been disconnected.
Disconnected.
"He got you, Jimmy.
" All right, motherfucker, he got me, too.
So, I'm gonna call Verizon, see if they got a fresh listing.
You happy now, bitch? You sure about that tag, Bubs? I seen the van.
It cleared the Court and rolled up Amity toward Lexington.
Plates were reported stolen off a car parked right here, on this block.
So you're thinking they're from right around here? Maybe.
Word in the Towers said it was Omar and his crew.
Omar? Who's he? - You ain't know Omar? Omar, the terror.
Been ripping and robbing out here for years now.
Is he fierce? - That nigger don't play.
Got a last name? - Just Omar.
He don't need no last name.
Who's his family? You remember No-Heart Anthony? Came up with him, they brothers.
No-Heart Anthony? Miss Kima, do not tell me you don't remember No-Heart Anthony.
Damn, girl.
What town you been policing at all these years? And right now, I am personally ashamed to be your snitch.
Shit.
What? - I'm late for my class.
Class? -12-14.
-12-14? Requesting anyone in my unit who's up to report to Channel 13.
Package be moving.
Avon's stuff always be good.
It's a sweet score? It's all right.
That play was a little bit raggedy in there, though.
I fucked up, I know, letting go your name.
I don't really care you shouted me out.
Everybody in these projects been knowing Omar, you heard? I just don't want them coming down on you, baby-boy.
Shirley coming with her game.
Every fucking day with that shit.
Mr.
Omar? My check late.
Yo, Mike.
Hook a sister up, yo.
So, what next, yo? Got some iron.
Thinking about working the flush-and-run over on the Eastside till things cool a mite.
That'll work.
So you don't want to lay over here tonight? - No.
Sure? - No, I'm gonna go see my mom.
Keep it close.
I hear that.
Who the man? I gotta be somewhere first, but I'll run him back downtown after.
No problem, thanks for answering.
Bubbs.
McNulty.
What's up? You ever heard of No-Heart Anthony? Who, Anthony Little? 1058 Argyle, Apartment 16-J.
He's up in Hagerstown on a robbery bit.
What about him? My man.
Fuck y'all.
You know how the cracker motherfuckers do when they kill a deer? Or, like, when they go out killing animals and whatnot? Got them on the front of the truck tied up, stretched out, so everybody could see it? You feel me? I'm serious, that's what I want.
I want that motherfucker on display.
I'm gonna send a message to the courtyard about this motherfucker so people know we ain't playing.
Yeah, we got people on it.
You tell them it's $1,000 on the bucks and it's $2,000 on Omar.
Yeah, Bird's on it.
Savino, too.
You know, Bird jailed with Omar down the cut, right? He said he all a faggot.
A faggot? Get the fuck out of here.
Yeah, said he had a whole stable of boys down in Jessup.
This punk motherfucker got even less use for pussy now that he home.
So, he gotta a lotta heart for a cocksucker? Yo, we doubling down on Sweet Lips, all right? We make it motherfucking $4,000 on him $6,000 if I get the chance to holler at him before he get got.
Say no more.
Take care of all that.
Stickup come up dead on the stash one night.
Police jumping out the next.
Something up at the Pit? Maybe, yeah.
What's up with my nephew? - I don't know.
He doing good.
He making that money out the hole, but he might have a problem he don't know about.
I'm on him.
Yo, where in Leave it to Beaver-land are you taking me? I'm late for something.
I'll drop you after, on the way back downtown.
What you late for? - Soccer.
Suck what? Get in the goal! Spread it out, spread it out, there you go.
First team, fall in! - Dad! - Mikey, how are you? - Who's winning? - They are, 4-1.
Ricardo, my assist.
Assist? That's good.
You've got to drink on the breaks, okay? I don't want you to get dehydrated.
Hi.
Hey.
This is Bubbles.
Hi.
Second team, come on! - Go on, Mike, go get 'em.
Bye, Dad.
You're late.
He thought you weren't gonna come this time either.
This job, you know this job.
I can't get out here when he gets off the bus at 4:00.
I need more than every other weekend.
He needs me more, so does Sean.
I'm not giving up any more weekends.
lawyer says I have to give- It's not 50-50 if I don't see him all goddamn week.
You see him every day- - Don't curse at me.
My lawyer says- Fuck your lawyer.
Fuck you.
Did you see? - Yeah, I saw.
Come on, you get out.
This good for you? Thin line between heaven and here.
How did he know where the stash at? The knockos don't know, but he do.
Because some nigger's snitching.
Man, ain't nobody got to be snitching for Omar or his boys to creep by and see where the stash at.
Damn, Bodie.
Fucked that nigger up.
They stomped his ass.
How he ain't courtside for banking a knocko? Boy, how you get home so quick? - Nigger, what you steal? - Camry XLE.
You all want a ride? It's right around the corner.
Man, Boy's Village ain't shit.
I'm just too bad for that off-brand little-boy bullshit, man.
It can't hold me.
What you laughing at? What's so funny? If you was me, your ass would still be down there.
You ever seen a city jail, nigger? You ever caught a body? I'm the one who just got home, remember? Eight months over on Eager Street with a body on me.
Yeah, you got the one.
Yeah, the one you know about.
You little motherfuckers need to ask around.
Yo, out near the county, right, on the high end of the Eastside? They got these apartments, out there, right? So there was this little shorty who used to stay out there.
She was, like I ain't seen a female that fine since.
I gotta say, Shorty was right.
You fucked her? No, man, it wasn't like that.
This was a shorty my uncle was messing with.
They was going on at it for a little while till she find out that my uncle got another little shorty round the way.
More right to say he got a few of them around the way know what I'm saying? So, she goes off the hook, talking about calling the police about shit she ain't supposed to know.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, you know it.
But see, I got some creep to me, and my uncle, he know that shit.
So they roll me out past her crib.
And they show me how she lives right on the ground floor, first level.
I go creeping around the back, to the back window.
I got the.
45 on me, the big gun.
I walk up to the window and I look in, and it's dark as shit because it's 3:00 a.
m.
, and you can't see shit.
What did you do? So I pulled out the piece and I start tapping with the back of it on the window.
And it was quiet, but it was loud enough so she can hear that shit.
That's what she heard, yo.
Sure enough, she comes out.
She's naked and shit.
I don't know why the fuck, but she has a robe and as she slipping on her robe, she turns on the light and when she does that, and it's light on the inside she can't see shit on the outside.
Damn, she naked.
She hears that shit on the window and she ain't got no choice but to walk over there and see what it is.
She steps up looks out see where it's coming from.
What happened? He shot her.
Yo, Dee, if she was all that, why didn't you fuck her first? - Nigger, you sick, just shut up.
What? I'm just saying There is something seriously wrong.
This is ridiculous.
Because a lab freezer goes out with an electrical short blood samples in 56 homicides - State's attorney knows? - The mayor, too.
Most of our trace lab is now 25 years old.
You ever go outside for money? The non-profits? Such as? The Abell Foundation, for one.
My brother's on the board.
If you want me to run it up there for you - You could swing that? - Never hurts to ask, does it? It never does, Your Honor.
So, in that same spirit where are we with the Barksdale probe? My other reason for stopping by.
Hand-to-hands and search-and-seizures, I've heard about these.
Some mid-level players caught up, as you can see.
Look, it's not a knockout blow, but we sent a clear message.
I don't see Barksdale's name anywhere or Bell, or anything about the murders.
The casework, it goes towards that.
No.
So, we've got work to do, don't we? Police, open the damn door! - What? - Open the motherfucking door! - Upstairs front clear.
Kitchen's clear.
I'm at the backdoor.
Anybody pop out here? - Okay, quiet.
Upstairs rear, clear.
I'm gonna beat this bitch like a red-headed stepchild for hiding up in this pisshole.
Goddamn creepy crawlers everywhere.
Tell Bodie we're on his ass.
I'm sorry for cursing at the door.
I mean, I couldn't see that it was only you.
Is it the drugs again? Would you like to sit down? Preston came to me when my daughter died.
He was four years old.
But even then, I knew he was angry.
His mother lived out there, caught up in it.
After a while, you couldn't make her see nothin' else.
No, man, that wasn't us.
You guys are crazy, man.
I don't know what you're talkin' about.
So, how you think you gonna carry it? I'm sorry, ma'am.
And I'm sorry for the way we came through here.
If Preston comes past give him this and tell him we need to talk, okay? I'm sorry.
What the fuck you doing in there? Talking.
Talking? - Yeah.
See you later.
All right, catch you later.
I'm driving.
Yeah? McNulty.
Some judge for you.
Yeah? Look, can I call you back? - Major, sir? - Yeah.
I've been thinkin'.
It's a clear violation of the general orders, I know, but Last night, I'm at home, I'm sittin' up buck naked.
And I got one hand wrapped around a cold domestic beer and the other wrapped around my magnificent, flaccid four-and-one-half inch wonder, and I am trying with all my might to remember what Leila Kaufman's nipples looked like when her bathing top slipped off at the Hillendale pool swim party.
Leila Kaufman? - Yes, sir.
Summer of '72.
I got this saucy wench in my gun-sights, so to speak and I am dangerously close to engorged when all of a fuckin' sudden, out of fuckin' nowhere fuckin' Detective, fuckin' Jimmy McNulty pops into my head.
McNulty? Obviously, I gotta open my eyes and admit to myself that my whole night is ruined.
At which point, I got nothing to do but think about the problems of Jimmy McNulty.
Because, clearly, this guy and his fuckin' problems are standing between me and all worldly pleasure.
Clearly.
First of all, it's not Jimmy's fault.
No? - No.
Jimmy is an addict, sir.
What's he addicted to? Himself.
It's not funny, sir.
As a matter of fact, it's a fuckin' tragedy is what it is.
The guy, he has come to believe that he is always the smartest fuck in the room.
And you know what? It's not his fault, because let's face it he's not going to Johns Hopkins or joining Mensa he's taking a fuckin' job with the Baltimore Police Department.
His first two years in Homicide, he's in Ulmansky's squad partnered with Tony Lamartino.
Christ, it must've been months even he was the smartest fuck in the fuckin' room.
What's your point, Jay? My point is he can't help it.
It makes him an asshole, I know but it's also what makes him good police.
Last year, he gives me eight clearances.
One of them was a decomp floater who was John Doe for three weeks.
Tell your boy to wrap up that bullshit detail in two weeks.
He does that, he comes home, clean slate.
You would've loved it.
Burrell is sittin' across from me with a handful ofstreet-level arrests pretendin' he has a plan.
So, what did you tell him? "Never shit a shitter, Deputy.
" That's what I fuckin' told him.
I did good, right, Jimmy? - I gotta go.
"Discuss the Hicks ruling as a manifestation "of the judiciary's attempt to maintain a speedy disposition "of criminal cases within a modern court system.
" What? That's what I said.
"What?" What the hell's the Hicks ruling? Did you highlight my sofa? What? No.
Yes, you did.
That was there from before.
Hell it was.
Damn, Kima, marker does not come out.
No, I didn't do it, I swear.
Okay, let me see the marker.
You want my marker, I need to see a warrant.
I'm serious, I need to see some probable cause.
I'm gonna beat your ass.
How about that for probable cause? - Give me the marker.
Damn, gettin' all violent and shit.
You know you just violated my civil rights? That's it, new rule: no marker on the couch.
You get over to that table over there and do your homework.
Go.
Take it and go.
Gimme my marker.
I'm gonna need some club soda.
Damn, girl, this cell phone bill must eat up the paycheck.
No, most of that's work, it's on the company.
Phelan won't let go.
Are we anywhere close on Barksdale? - No, sir.
So, what are you telling me? I'm not telling you anything, sir.
I'm waiting for you to tell me.
I can do whatever you need me to do with this.
If you want me to push it further, I can do that.
If you want it to go away If you wanna bring in someone else, maybe do things differently.
You looking for the back door, Lieutenant? Already? McNulty says this case needs a wire.
You think he's right? It needs somethin'.
Just climb your ass up the pole, man.
No, man.
This'll work.
I'm not climbin' no damn ladder.
You never gonna hit it, man.
Bomb! - Housing must think we just dumb.
Is that- - That's your pager or mine? - That's me.
Yo, watch that shit on my head.
Man, it ricocheted off the fuckin' camera.
Yeah, you need some aim.
Yo, who this? So, what do you think? Title 3? Right, but it's not for a wiretap.
It's to clone a pager, I got it from Pearlman.
Pagers? - Some kind of throwback thing.
You mean, why not cell phones? - Right.
Who uses pagers anymore? Tell you what, I was checking out a wireless bill last night.
Every incoming call was listed.
Right.
So, if we get Barksdale's pager, we might get off the street.
Maybe even trace some supply.
So, who's No-Heart Anthony? No-Heart ran drugs in the homes in the early '90s.
So, a couple years back, I don't know why he finds himself in Randallstown, tryin' to take off a jewelry store.
He fucks it up, half the county chases him back downtown.
And I guess No-Heart figures he's not up for doing the time 'cause he puts a.
44 against his chest, pulls the trigger.
A.
44? It's a contact wound.
Wakes up two hours later in the University ER.
With a new nickname.
Right.
Bubbles says it's Anthony's brother who took off with the Barksdale stash the other night.
Dude named Omar.
It's not the easiest trade, you know, robbin' dealers.
Man like that is likely to have a weapon on him.
We jack him up, there's a charge to work off.
And if he knows where the Barksdale stash is he probably knows a whole lot more.
See? Another plan.
The thing is, we're gonna have to sell this.
You wanna raise it with Daniels? He'll listen to you more than me.
Where's Santangelo? He's at ECU.
He's got a case going today.
As of today, I haven't heard anything to the contrary, so we're gonna press on.
Ideas? We could continue with the busts.
But I don't think that's gonna get us too far off the street.
On the other hand, the people we pulled in last week had pagers.
So did D'Angelo Barksdale when McNulty jacked him up.
We could clone a couple of pagers, see where that takes us.
Clone what? - Their pagers.
They get beeped, we get beeped.
We see who's calling, from what number.
If they're all that, why are they still using pagers? Why not un-ass a few dollars for cell phones? It's a discipline.
You can't bug a pager.
But you can't make a call with a pager, either.
You're gonna want a pen register on all the payphones in the low-rises and any other phones that link to the pagers.
What would it take to do the pagers? A wiretap affidavit.
I think we got enough PC from the hand-to-hands and surveillance.
We got most of the exhaustion.
I'm exhausted just listening to this shit.
Good.
Exhaustion is a legal requirement for using electronic intercepts.
We gotta prove nothing else works.
See, we did the raids, we made the arrests, but nobody flipped.
We don't have an informant who takes us anywhere above the street.
That's pretty much exhaustion.
All we got left to do now is follow one of these mopes and prove to ourselves we can't do it.
We try to show a judge we can't make the case by following these guys, and we can't.
How can we keep on any of them when they're in those towers? But you gotta show you tried.
Do we have a pager number? This was written on the stash house wall with the letter "D" next to it.
Is that D'Angelo? Did you check it? It's him.
Let's do this.
What does he want us to do? I don't understand.
I'll explain it to you if you buy me breakfast.
Will you explain to me again why I'm about to rework a six-month-old crime scene? Look at this narrow-ass file.
Keeley didn't do shit on this.
He did the scene, though.
This is Keeley we're talking about.
Fucking Jay and his leaps of logic.
This case is nowhere near anything we're doing.
So? Give it a shake or two anyhow.
Make a sergeant happy.
Whatever.
Do you know Lester Freamon? A little.
Why? He's with us on this Barksdale thing.
I thought you said they gave you humps.
He looks like a hump, he acts like a hump, sittin' there, playing with his toy furniture.
Jimmy, he makes more money off of that shit than you do off of this job.
Don't let Lester fool you.
He did already.
Today in roll call, he showed something.
Hey, he's natural police.
He used to be Homicide.
Why did he leave? - Ask him.
This is the one? - Yup.
Hasn't been rented since.
Fuck.
Motherfucker.
Fucking fuck.
Fuck.
Fuck.
What the fuck? Fuck.
Fuck.
No.
Fuck.
Fuck it.
Fuck.
Motherfuck.
Fuck.
Fuckity, fuck, fuck.
Fuck.
Fuck.
Motherfucker.
Fuckin' A.
Fuck.
Check this.
Motherfucker.
Fuck me.
Sydnor's on foot, Carv's in the car Herc, you need to be on top of the roof behind Amity.
Again, I get the shit detail? The plan is to stay on D'Angelo.
If we lose him, we lose him, right? We're gonna lose him.
You can't follow people in the towers.
You can't hang in the low-rises unless you got a reason.
Just to make sure, we want to lose him, right? Losin' him is good? Right.
Then why the fuck do this? Come on, Herc.
Roll with me on this one, all right? So, you're police after all.
You know what you doing, but you ain't been doing it.
How long you been in the Pawnshop unit? -13 years? - And four months.
I gotta ask you what exactly does a police officer assigned to the Pawnshop unit do? You intake reports from registered pawnshops on all items valued over $50.
Then you make an index card for that item.
Then you file that index card.
If someone wants to find out if something stolen was pawned we see if we have an index card.
If we do, we do, if we don't, we don't.
You did that for 13 years? - And four months.
Why'd you ask out of Homicide? Wasn't no ask about it.
You got the boot? What'd you do to piss them off? Police work.
I think I need to buy you a drink.
Just one? Caught this case in a Brooklyn home in the summer of '87.
stabbed up nightgown, in bed, forced window, rear entry.
Worked it for a couple of weeks.
Got the names of two squirrels over in Curtis Bay.
Squirrel number one gives it up and tries to put all the weight on squirrel number two.
Back up the statements? Print it on the rear window for number two another one for number one on the medicine chest.
So, it's down, yeah? Even better when squirrel number one drives it by the house where they fenced the old lady's shit: clock-radio, TV, toaster oven.
So, what's the problem? The problem is the fence.
Turned out he was the son of one of the big editors over at the News America.
This man is running the afternoon newspaper and his son is getting all fucked up doin' the dirt and getting high down in Locust Point.
The deputy, who I guess is in a favor-doin' mood sends word down to the major I'm supposed to make the case without the fence.
Just the print hits and the statement.
Play it like that.
So, he's doin' this for what? To have some newspaper guy in his pocket? Yeah, I guess so.
Is this Burrell? No, no, Mueller.
Deputy Ops before Burrell.
So, what did you do? What do you think I did? I charged him with receiving, then had his ass testify.
You could've made the case without him.
Just on the prints and the statements.
Probably, yup.
Why didn't you? Why? Why are you fuckin' up yourself chasing Avon Barksdale? A week after trial ends, Major comes to me asks me where I want to go.
I tell him, I don't care, I like to be outside, you know? Give me a goddamn foot-post I'll still make my money, you know send my ass up to Edmondson Avenue, I don't give a shit.
You went to a foot-post? Major come back, asks me where I don't want to go.
And he asks it like he wanna make sure I land okay.
So, I tell him, I don't want no fuckin' paper-shuffle.
No office shit.
Send my black ass outside and let me police somewhere.
Pawnshop unit.
They got me good.
So, why'd they let you out of the box? Why now? I guess they just forgot about me.
Shit, Lester.
You back from the dead? You rolled away the stone.
Bunk Moreland says you're natural police.
One of the few.
Yeah, I've had my moments.
Detective when they ask you where you wanna go and they are gonna ask you where you wanna go do yourself a favor keep your mouth shut.
I gotta take a tinkle, boy.
I got it.
All right.
Hello.
Is Kima there? - And you are? Tell her it's McNulty.
For you, Kima, a decidedly confused white boy.
God.
How'd it go today? Lost him in the 221.
Picked him back up in the low-rises and then lost him on Schroeder Street after dark.
Nicely done.
Are you okay to drive? - Yeah, I'm fine.
I just wanted to thank you.
For what? For today, you know, with Daniels.
You should be thanking Lester.
I did.
I just wanted to thank you, too, Detective Greggs.
No problem.
Good night.
That it is.
What'd I miss? Nothin' much.
Lovelorn? Worse.
Lonely.
You didn't make it into class again today.
You said you'd stick with it.
I'm tryin'.
Things are hot right now.
I'm doing the best I can.
You said yourself, you need to do somethin' else.
Somethin' better for us.
You promised.
Man.
What am I gonna do with you? You know better women than you have fallen for my tricks, right? What have you got under this?
the big fat morning show.
Now, you wanna play the brand new big fat game: big fat match game, call us now Hello? Hello? Who was that? - They hung up without saying.
They hung up without saying? What you care? You never use the damn phone in here no how.
What's up, baby? I need you to get them phone lines up out that house.
Out of the apartment? Why? I'm saying, what Chantay gonna say about not havin' no line in her own place? All right.
Got you.
What's up, baby, you got a problem? - Good.
I'm just sayin' though, man it seem we just goin' past careful, man with all of this, man.
Like we buggin' out or something.
You know, like we paranoid and shit.
Naw, I don't wanna use this phone.
We used this phone yesterday.
What you blowing out your mouth for, man? You act like Ain't nobody out to get me, man.
I got no motherfuckin' enemies.
Naw, man.
We all right.
All right, this gonna be so easy them Eastside chumps, they ain't nothing like Avon's people.
Watch, y'all gonna see.
All right, now y'all gonna be here, right? Hold up.
Yo, Boo! I'm gonna slide up through here.
Bailey, you gonna cover the alley.
Yo! Yo, Maurice short, man.
How short? - Three.
Tell him to grow a couple of inches.
Where you gonna be at? That be the trap right there, homes.
You figure they roll through the alley for sure? Man, rats always run to holes in times of danger.
And you him, ain't you? - Who? - Danger.
Naw, man, I'm just a nigger with a plan, that all.
And a shotgun.
For sure.
Sorry I'm late.
Got myself lost down the other hallway.
That leads to the loading dock.
Yeah, and deep storage.
So, this is where they put you? Quite a message they're sending.
Yeah, and that message is - Out of sight, out of mind.
Spoken like a true troglodyte.
Whole lot of dead trees behind this nonsense.
The foundation of your case, Detective.
You lay it in right, you can build on it.
You lay it in wrong, everything on top falls.
We ready? Do you solemnly swear and affirm that the affidavit is true and accurate to the best of your knowledge? - I do.
I do.
Then by the power vested in me, I now declare you man and wife.
Did he swear already? - The state's attorney? Yeah.
I see it.
Second copy is sealed for the court, and the police get the others.
How's this work? Same frequency as the one carried by D'Angelo Barksdale.
He gets a page, we get a page.
So, we up now? - It's official.
You're up.
Then let the game begin.
Celebrities always seem much smaller when you meet them in person.
Yo! Yo! Check it out, here he come.
Somethin' ain't right, yo.
Watch out, man, he got that boom.
He's packing.
Here he come.
Yo, come on, Omar's coming, man! Oh, shit! Yeah the cheese stands alone.
How you know? - 'Cause if you could, I'd have been had.
Yo, he saying you can't catch the bug just by getting your dick sucked.
Dumb-ass, you gotta be in some pussy to get it, all right? Man, wear a coat if you want, don't nobody like suckin' on a rubber.
How would you know? Who you trying to fuck anyway? Arletta Mouzone.
Treenee's cousin.
Damn, man, in that case use a big-ass condom, all right? You need a trash bag.
Fuck that.
I wouldn't run up in that bitch with D'Angelo's dick It's triflin'.
Easy to see why niggers come around here stealing our shit! Yo, you know what, nigger? What? Forget it.
Six intercepts so far, and five aren't working numbers? Something wrong with the recorder? We're getting what you'd expect, seven digits of a telephone number and a two-digit add-on to identify the caller, like here, 13.
McNulty, line one.
Yeah.
Did youjust get a 142 exchange? Yeah, that's what we got, too.
That's fucked up.
All right, later.
He's got the same numbers on the readout of the cloned pagers.
So it's not the recorder.
These mopes are using a code to cover their calls? - That's pretty damn sophisticated.
What is? They've coded the telephone numbers in their pager messages.
How do you know? Every time the Barksdale kid's pager goes off this machine gives us a message and time.
McNulty's carrying a cloned pager, but this is what we use in court.
Same with those pen registers.
Every time a pay phone in the low-rise court is used we get the telephone number, the time and the duration of the call.
Incoming calls, too.
Spy shit.
Very cool.
You say they're using some kind of code? Yeah, they got to be.
These numbers don't make no fuckin' sense.
You rang? - Omar's ride.
Bubbles spotted it.
Different tags, no stolen report, these come back right for the van but Bubs makes it by the cargo rack on the roof.
Good scope.
You wanna take him? Can't hurt to try.
We pop Omar, get a gun, he might let us work him.
Anything coming through on the pager? Eight hits so far, most of them in some kind of code.
These ain't Baltimore exchanges, that's for sure.
Three weeks to get Daniels to agree, a week to write out the affidavit and then this bullshit.
How complex a code can it be if these knuckleheads are using it? Then again, what does it say about us if we can't break it? You wanna run Bubs back downtown, I'll sit here and wait for you.
All right.
What'd I miss, girlfriend? - Not a goddamn thing.
Yeah, boring, ain't we? How y'all do what you do every day and not wanna get high? That's what I be asking.
It's been a little hectic down here, right, cuz? String, man, I can't lie.
Them stick-up boys, they caught us dead up.
And the knockos, shit, I don't know what the fuck that was.
-5-0 comin' up, y'all.
Time-out.
C'mon, man, what is that? - What? You gotta get your crew to understand that it's the stick-up crews and the creepers that give us the most trouble.
When they start thinking like that you're not gonna have any more surprises, you feel me? 'Cause you know, your uncle and me we think you got a snitch up in the shop.
What? - Someone who tips off the stick-up crew.
And you gotta be on that, right? You gotta be on that.
I'm gonna tell you what you do.
What day is it today, Friday? What happen on Friday? - Payday.
Not this Friday.
Why not? No, what you gonna do is you gonna call 'em like you gonna pay 'em and then you crack 'em.
You tell 'em you're not happy with what they fuckin' pass as work down here.
And when you're not happy, they ain't gettin' paid.
You feel me? Yeah, but String, you don't pay a nigger, he ain't gonna work for you.
What, you think a nigger's gonna get a job? You think these niggers gonna be like, "Fuck it "let me quit this game here and go to college"? Naw, they gonna buck a little, but they not gonna walk.
And in the end, you gonna get respect.
Yeah.
And when that money run out, they'll come up to you and roll on you and ask you for an advance and shit, when they flat-ass broke.
Them the niggers that you strike off your list.
But that nigger that stay eatin' the nigger that steady rollin', ain't askin' you for shit that's the nigger I want to hear about.
Understand? Yeah, man, shit, you know how to play a nigger into a corner, String.
Yo, take care of this right here.
You my favorite girl.
Shit, let me handle this, man.
Yo, Poot.
Yeah, I- - Come here, man.
What's happening? What the fuck is that? What the fuck is that? You know the fuckin' rules.
What the fuck are you doing? - Copying.
A telephone.
This fucking detail is too much for me.
It's after 3:00.
So, where are the boys at? Maybe they only come out at night.
I used to have a guy like Omar working for me.
Guy named Reuben Terry.
Is he good? Saw the street like we wish we could.
Ain't nothing like a good Cl.
School's out.
Can I use your cell phone? Yeah, I got that.
I did.
I know.
I don't know about this - What do you mean, you don't know? - How can I trust you For chrissakes, Elena, I'm their father.
You think I'd let 'em sleep on the floor? Yes, I got them.
Sheets, pillows, comforters, pillowcases.
I fuckin' got them.
What color are they? Color, what the fuck do you care what color they are? Hello? - Lost her.
I bet.
You know something? My ex-wife, the way she acts sometimes, the way she deals with shit you would think a less enlightened man than myself, cruder man than myself a man less sensitized to the qualities and charms and value of women a man like that, not me, but a man like that, he just might call her a cunt.
You just called the mother of your children a cunt.
No, I did not call her that.
Yes, you fuckin' did.
No, I did not.
Let's just leave this, okay? I got some stuff to do.
man, get out the way! Shit.
Not much fighting this time.
You getting tired, asshole? Still dragging from the whupping Kima put on him.
Fucked you up like a cop should, didn't she? That's one thing about Kima, she put a hurtin' on you like a man.
Get your monkey ass up.
You're gonna want your business card back, right? Come on.
From Bantry Bay to the Derry Quay And from Galway to Dublin town Well, I've never seen My brown Colleen That I met in the County Down There's a man in the County Down There's a man in the County Down First, I go in, play nice.
Then you come in, play bad.
I ain't gonna be playin'.
Bracelet too tight? You rackin' up all kinds of points, ain't you? First, you put a cop in the hospital, damn near kill his ass with that punch.
Now, you on the wing from Boys' Village.
Man, I'm 16, all right? What the fuck they gonna do to me? That's the least of your worries, my friend.
I got a partner outside who can't wait to get in here and fuck you up.
Cop you banged was Herc's uncle.
Herc wants off the leash on this one.
And I suppose you at the other end of that leash? See, I don't want to play it that way.
I know about comin' up hard and all.
Why, you came up hard? Flag House projects.
Eastside.
Yeah, Flag House? You know, you remind me of me.
I'm thinking we should work something out.
What do I get? What you want? I want for you to suck my dick.
I'll beat your fuckin' monkey ass.
You supposed to be the good cop, dumb motherfucker.
What? - Hello, may I help you? - Yeah, we'd like a table.
And you have reservations? Naw, I thought, you know, we could just walk in Let me see what I got.
That's two? Follow me, please.
Your coat, ma'am? - Can we get that one, over there? - It's Friday night those are for patrons who made reservations.
Let me get your chair for you, ma'am.
It's okay, man, all right.
Here you are.
Here you are, sir.
Your waiter will be with you shortly.
You shoulda pushed him, Dee.
Bastards.
Sarge, nobody answers at juvenile intake and we been calling.
Clearly, they're not as dedicated as you two detectives.
So what time does the duty intake consultant get here? You missed the 8:00.
You got another one around midnight.
Midnight? - You think maybe if we left you the paperwork, you could put him in the box 'til intake gets here? Hemorrhoid.
For the crumbs.
Yeah, right.
You like your dinner? - Yeah.
That shrimp was right.
Yeah, it was good, right? Think they know? Do they know what? You know.
What I'm about.
What you mean, Dee? Come on, you know, it's like we get all dressed up, right? Come all the way across town.
Fancy place like this.
After we finished, we gonna go down to the harbor.
Walk around a little bit, you know? Acting like we belong down here, know what I'm saying? So? Your money good, right? Dee, we ain't the only black people in here.
It ain't what I'm talking about.
It's about where we Come on, you know.
I'm just saying, you know, I feel like some shit just stay with you you know what I'm saying, like, hard as you try you still can't go nowhere, you know what I'm saying? - Can I interest you in dessert? - Yes, thank you.
Can I have some chocolate cake? - I'll bring the cart.
Boy, don't nobody give a damn about you and your story.
You got money, you get to be whatever you say you are.
That's the way it is.
Sir, I'm sorry.
These are the samples.
And for you, sir? Very good.
Don't be a bitch, admit it.
Go ahead.
Admit you're wrong, be a man.
Yeah, I gotta confess this sub beats chink-ass Bob's by a mile.
'Course, you might be all that when it comes to thumpin' on niggers but you can't do shit with that stick, man.
You'd do better.
I play.
Says he plays.
He might.
I'm even better with two hands.
I checked it out, man.
Stinkum true on this one.
Except for that nigger, Scar, from New York Edmondson gully is wide open.
What about Tee-Tee's crew? Naw, them niggers dried up when they took that federal charge.
Most of 'em laid up somewhere, gettin' high and shit.
I'll tell you what.
You holler at the boy Scar.
Let him know, man, it's time for him to take a stroll.
If he give you any beef at all, we'll put Wee-Bey and Bird on it.
All right.
And then once we got him outta there we'll send in the smokers to run out all the little poop-butt locals and shit.
Or, if you think there's some cats in there who got game - then we put 'em on our team.
All right, who you want to run it? - Send Stinkum up here.
All right.
He the one who saw the shot.
So, he gets a shot.
All right, okay, not bad.
Can't let the duty officer see that.
You wanna give it a rest, man? You down $60.
That might be your whole damn salary, but I clock that shit in minutes.
Rack 'em and break 'em, man.
You the guys waiting for juvenile intake? He's in the squad room.
If I had more time, I'd run you.
Give you a tip, Preston.
You gonna run a hustle, you best stay with what you know.
Man, fuck you and your tired-ass advice, all right? But that sandwich was good.
You gonna move our little thing down to Edmondson Avenue.
Take the gully.
What about Scar? Who? Listen, I'm giving you points on the package so, you make a go of it, you hear me? You working for yourself, too, so you gonna put out the strong product and you gonna get the locals behind it.
It's as simple as that.
You get your team together, you feel me? Go and wait for me downstairs.
I'll be down in a minute, man.
We gonna make this money run in a few.
Smile or something, nigger.
Made that nigger's night.
Yeah, he deserved it, though.
He deserved it.
It's Wee-Bey.
We got one.
You think it's Omar? - Nah.
It's one of the young 'uns, I think.
One down, two to go, right? Yeah, motherfuckers.
Try to rob me, baby.
One, two, three.
A winner.
A match? Which case? The one you just brought me, Bunk.
Casing in that girl shot up in Northeast.
Kresson? - Diedre Kresson, right, yeah.
She matches up with two other cases, both from last year.
Which ones? - Toreen Boyle - Someone named Ligget.
It's in the report.
It's Toreen Boyd, Roland Leggett.
Yeah, them.
Casings from all three killings go to a.
45, probably Colt Classic.
That fucker Landsman.
How's he do it? - You like Landsman for these three? I don't know, Bunk.
As sergeants go, Jay's a sociopath and all, but I'd have to go with an actual gangster.
Jimmy, you sitting down? I said it was hot, but ifyou got these barbecue gloves.
You got a Johnny Weeks up in here? - Who? - Johnny Weeks.
Over in the game room.
Obliged.
Any smokes? - I'm out.
How long have you been here? You gotta give the medication a chance to work in your system, man.
Brought you something.
Yeah, some chicken pieces and some fries.
Bought you a shake, but I dropped it on the bus.
It comes in a bag, goes out in a bag.
How long you have that for? - I fucked up, man.
Yeah, I saw.
There was nothing I could do, you know? It's like first I got beat, right, then I get this.
What are these for? They say I got the bug.
The bug? They checked me when I was in the hospital- Are they sure? Where you been at? Here and there, I'm at it.
I'd have come past sooner, but I been on kinda like a mission.
A mission? - Yeah.
Them hoppers that beat you down they got problems now.
Them and the people they sling for, even.
What? I put the police on their ass.
Police? - What, you get locked up or something? - No, come on.
No, I'm not working for them.
I'm working with them.
They don't give me the badge soon enough, I keep doing like I do.
Why? What do you mean why? How can you ask me why? Why the fuck are you in here, man, with all these falling-down motherfuckers? Why you passing shit through a bag? Why they beat you down? Why I couldn't do nothing about it? It's all part of the game, right? I mean, you taught me that.
What you up to in here, man? - Doing the meetings.
N.
A.
? Yeah.
Twice a day.
That's good, man.
It's good, you give the body comfort, you know.
Yeah.
No, you needed a change.
Guess so.
I'll be getting out of here the end of the month.
It's all right.
They got meetings everywhere.
You ain't gotta worry about that.
Bubs.
Who's got the best package now? - Get the fuck out of here, man.
I'm coming home, right? Shit is weak all over, you know? Got some boys up in Baker and Calhoun, though.
They had a smoker out the other day though.
Yeah? - Knocked a couple of niggers out.
Ain't you a trip? Beat down, bagged up, still ready to rip and run, huh? I'm a Viking, homes.
"I'm a Viking, homes.
" McNulty.
There's something here that needs kissing.
Speak again, toothless one.
I guess you know now why I wear the stripes in the family.
Good call, Jay.
Of course, if Keeley hadn't fucked the scene up you'd have had that casing months ago, right? Keeley.
Let Keeley be Keeley.
We all can't be princes of the city, now can we? Speaking of which sit down.
May I ask you a question that is essential to your career? - What? - Who do you serve? I am asking you to identify for the record your commanding officer.
Major Rawls.
Excellent.
And with that thought in mind, I advise you to go immediately into the Major's office carrying the break I've given you in the Kresson case and kiss the man's ring.
Because I have talked you right out of the shithouse.
Here's the deal.
You wrap up this thing with Narcotics in two weeks.
You put yourself back in the rotation when we go back to night work.
You do that and you're back in the fold.
Thanks, Jay.
No problem.
Shit ain't right.
You work, you get paid.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm gonna say something to him, all right? - You should.
Truth.
What's up, Dee? - What's up, Shorty? $530, the count is right, man.
Okay, re-ups on the way down.
Go tell Sterling to be ready for it.
All right.
Yo, Dee, man.
You know, me and Poot, we been steady working it, you know? Nothing sloppy, no troubles, right? No.
And we was wondering if, maybe you could let a little something go until payday, 'cause you know, right now, we some broke-ass niggers, man.
Right now, whoever did our girl also did Boyd and Leggett a month earlier.
Leggett.
And those two are definitely straight-up drug executions.
No mention of Dee in either file.
But I did get a fresh number - on Tywanda.
Who? The girl who called in on Kresson.
Right.
She put Dee in for that.
Have you seen this? Jaybird.
And the bear said, "You didn't really come here to hunt now, did you?" - You see Saturday's 24s? - Sunday morning.
Did you see the one Worden got on the Westside? John Bailey, in a Kevlar vest, lit up by three separate shooters.
Carey Street.
You made the Kresson connection you didn't think Bailey might tie in with Barksdale? Worden's on the other shift.
I'm trying to work my murders, Jesus Christ.
Tony, Line 3.
What took you so long? You might've heard, we get a few murders here in Baltimore sometimes we just get backed up.
You weren't followed here? - Why would we be followed? Diedre was playing with scary people.
Who might that be? You called this in after the murder and you told the detective that you talked to her the night she was killed.
She called.
It was late.
She didn't talk long, she said she had to go.
Dee was at the door.
And that was the last time you spoke with her? - Yeah, she was killed that night.
Dee was her boyfriend? No, Dee was his nephew or something.
Dee would be D'Angelo Barksdale.
And the boyfriend, Avon Barksdale? You know Avon? The question is how do you know him? You out there running the street with the players? I used to be but not after this thing with Diedre.
I mean, damn.
We used to go to Odell's for ladies' nights and one time he was there with all his people in one of the big booths ordering drinks, acting like he was king of everything.
And Diedre ate that shit up.
And you? - I ain't gonna lie.
I did the club thing for a while, but some of those places, everybody in there's on some kind of game.
But Diedre went with Avon? She was with Avon for like a year and something happened.
Toward the end, she started getting real possessive and that didn't sit with Avon, 'cause he has other girls, too.
She started bitching on him one minute crying the next minute, threatening to do all kinds of things.
She threatened Avon Barksdale? - The girl was off the hook.
One time, she threatened to write a letter on him.
A letter.
A letter to the state's attorney.
Supposed to be some sort of kin to her.
She said that if he dumped her she was gonna tell about the drugs.
Did she write this letter? - I don't know.
I tried talking to her about the way she was acting, but she wouldn't let it go.
She even had it out with him in his club one night in front of all the people.
What, Avon has a club? Orlando's, titty bar.
Does he own it? - That's what Diedre said.
She said he owned a whole mess of stuff.
Tell me something, man.
What's that? How can you run this place and not just OD on pussy? Shit.
You try dealing with all these bitches and their problems for a few days.
Get so you'd rather be running a goddamn laundromat out this fucker.
Heard you're doing okay in the Pit.
Yeah, well.
What, you ain't getting it like that? Man, my uncle still got me working on salary.
Damn, boy.
You ain't the only one your uncle keeps close.
What? Come on, man, you ain't making no ends? I know you getting something on this by now.
No, man.
I'm just the front, clean name for the liquor board.
I'm saying- - What the fuck? Is there a problem? That was for the drink before.
It was for this one.
It ain't like I'm calling your uncle out or nothing but give a nigger a chance.
Plenty of pie out there for everybody.
Believe.
You heard Stinkum gonna be coming off the clock, right? Getting a percentage.
What? - Open up fresh territory.
Take over the corners down near Edmondson and Brice.
So, my uncle gave that to Stink? Figured you knew.
Orlando! Excuse me, Orlando, can you help me down here, please? - I already paid for that last drink.
That was for the drink before.
Hell, no, that was for this one.
What's up here? Look, he ain't paid for that drink and I took $20 off the bar.
Look she took $20, then $20 more.
Hell I did.
Come on, now, why you gonna do me like this? I been with you for an hour and a half buying drinks.
Look, man, this ain't right.
I just spent $120 in drinks, $40 in tips.
Now, you gonna take all that and still try to sneak into my pocket? - Shit, girl! - You got to go, get him the fuck outta here.
I ain't done so much as touch your kneecap.
Trying to treat her with a little respect, and this is the way you do me? Wait, wait! Why you do that? - Did you take his money? - No, I didn't take his money.
You buying me a drink? Can I see you sometime? Like, you know, not in here.
I don't usually see men that I meet in here.
Usually.
What kind of strip joint has a video camera looking out? More to it than the girls, maybe.
So, he's got the club, he's got the warehouse he's got the apartment building by Druid Hill Lake he's got the tow truck company and that's just what she knew from what he bragged about to the dead girl.
Major likes assets.
The Deputy, too, I imagine.
Nothing like a few property forfeitures to swell the departmental operation budget.
Check city assessments to see who owns the club.
Run the company name through the state corporate charter office.
Also, Homicide picked up one Saturday night.
Might be one of ours.
John Bailey, he's a stick-up artist I used to know from the Murphy homes.
He was wearing Kevlar, but it didn't help.
from three different guns.
Overkill for a burn bag but about right if he was running with Omar.
Lookit, our buddy.
Just once, I wish they'd use the right number.
Ain't like him to be late.
Bailey, you fucking dope fiend.
I'm telling you them fucking people ain't to be relied on.
Why you always gotta talk like that, man? - What? - "F" this and "f" that.
If I give it up, I lose half of what I mean to say.
Don't nobody want to hear them dirty words, man.
Especially coming from such a beautiful mouth.
Wait for Bailey? Early bird catches the worm, dog.
I beeped you.
I didn't get it.
Let me see.
You want to see my pager? Sure, Prez, you want to see my pager? - I beeped you too.
You all right, Prez? I got that.
That was you? You try it? Yeah, I tried it.
Twice.
Non-working number.
It would've worked if you knew the code.
Shit, I'm as surprised as you.
I like word-search puzzles.
You know, where you gotta find the hidden words? So, I thought I could do the same thing with the numbers.
Take the number I sent you.
Now, take the seven and jump it over the five.
You get three.
Jump the one over the five you get nine.
With four you get six.
Three, that's seven, four is six a three again and two is eight.
Zero switches with the five.
So 714-3432 is Our number.
And that's the code? And it works, because it's all about where the buttons are on a phone.
If it was a code that involved math or algebra or whatever these little yos in the projects wouldn't be able to follow along.
But with this, all you gotta do is jump the five button.
Ain't no math to it.
It's just how a phone looks when you look at it.
Prez, you little genius! - Jesus.
I could kill you, that's so good.
Your mother keep ragging at me to take him outta here and put him in a private nursing home.
You know, she ain't never gonna let that go.
I keep telling her, man, we can't show this legit money yet, man especially since he ain't got no insurance.
Soon, though.
So, you ain't big on coming here, right? No.
Tell you something, man you about to see your uncle, you understand me? - This is family.
I know.
Family is what counts, family is what it's about.
Family gonna always be there 'cause it's blood.
Man.
You never figured on this, did you? Live the life, lead the life.
Ain't no big thing.
He used to talk that shit all the time and he believed it, you know what I'm saying? What's up, baby, talk that shit now.
You know, you're right.
It's kind of hard to be in here right now.
He scare you, don't he? - You know, I'm just saying- - He scares me.
See, if he dead, you know, I could carry it better.
Coming up the way we did, you kind of expect that.
Waiting on it.
See the thing is, you only got to fuck up once.
Be a little slow, be a little late.
Just once.
And how you ain't gonna never be slow never be late? You can't plan for no shit like this, man.
It's life.
Scares me.
They're still using it.
I was by on Saturday night and it was gone.
On your own time? You still getting your boys? Yeah, tonight for a sleep-over.
Omar's rolling.
What the hell? Call for backup? Not yet.
Let's see how it plays out.
An invitation.
Feel a little lonesome for backup.
Yeah, me, too.
That's nice.
I'll check the rear.
I'll watch the boys.
Afternoon, gentlemen.
Saying, if you were gonna use that you would've been done using it by now.
It's clean.
Got to keep it clean.
We having one of our little parlays like this, got to keep it clean, right? Omar with no gun on the street? Must be a first.
Yeah, sometimes who you are is enough, dog.
But being as y'all sitting on my ride so long, I thought I'd save y'all some time.
Come straight on out.
I ain't taking no charge.
You ain't putting me back in no cage.
We're not here to bury you, Omar.
We're pulling you up 'cause we got a problem in common.
Problem? - Barksdale.
No, he ain't no problem.
I don't know.
Avon's been chalking up a lot of bodies.
And you being you Put it that way, I guess he could be a little problem but I just can't really come out and help you all.
You know what I mean? Snitchin' just rubs me wrong.
Personally, I don't think the game is played like that.
We respect that.
If you do happen to take a charge though I'm McNulty, that's Greggs.
You give us a call, we'll sort something out.
Fair enough.
You know, I used to work the homes, back when your brother was up there.
You get a chance let him know they blew up John Bailey last night.
Good man.
Lot of enemies.
Saying, you trying to catch up with Bird? Word is he dropped a workin' man.
Wait, hold up.
Come on, don't play me.
What workin' man, what Bird? Come on, now, ain't but one working man, now, is there? And Bird? I think your snitch can handle that.
Shit, Bubbles know Bird.
You working late? A little.
Got a minute? Sure, have a seat.
No, this is better said standing up.
You know, I've been 13 years on the shelf.
I ain't bitched.
It was me that put me there.
But I'm here now, and I gotta say a piece.
We should've had a tap on the project pay phones by now.
A wire there will get us the drugs.
Keep pushing, we'll get a whiff of the money, too.
I know you're serious about climbing that career ladder and I know how slippery it gets the higher you go but for me I don't want to go to no dance unless I can rub some tit.
I appreciate your honesty.
Good night, Lieutenant.
So, what you say to make Dee pay out? I told him to give it up or I'm taking him out of the count.
Shit.
Look.
I'll pump niggers when I got to.
That's him.
That's who? One of the ones that robbed us.
That light-skinned boy.
That's him? All right, come on.
I'm the king of this shit.
So, you want us to wait? - Yeah.
All right, we on it, man.
All right.
There goes Scar right there.
Right there in the blue? - Number 80? - Yeah, I'm on him.
All right, you got him? - Find a phone real quick.
What's wrong? It looks like my man Dee got himself an emergency.
What, he been stuck up again? What's up, what do you need? My people are onto one of Omar's boys down at Greek's.
Word? All right, sit tight.
I'm gonna take care of it.
All right.
Ain't nobody coming.
Dee said wait.
Dee said wait.
Told you.
He still in there? - Yeah, he's playing the games.
All right.
You are sharp, son.
What's your name? - Wallace.
Wallace, all right.
This nigger's gonna point him out to us, all right? Yeah.
It's done.
Nice work, cuz.
All right.

Rise and shine! Come on, man, get up! Oh, boy.
Come on, get up! School day.
Y'all gonna be late! Let's go.
Get up for school.
Go! Get up.
Come on, man.
Damn, Wallace.
"Damn, Wallace," nothing! Y'all know what happens if you don't go to school? Soon enough, they're gonna be callin' and all y'all gonna end up in foster care.
If y'all want foster care, climb your little black asses back into bed.
Get outta my way, man.
Damn, it's too early for this shit.
Narcos? - No, rollies.
Yo, where's breakfast at? Here, man.
You get two.
I want two bags.
You don't get two.
Come on, getting greedy.
Take the chips! Come on.
Take your juice.
Come on, man.
Where's mine? Go show your teacher.
Come on, man.
Where's your book bag? - Teacher ain't giving no homework.
That's the worst case of suicide I've ever seen.
That's him.
You see? That's him, right there.
That's Omar's boy.
What the fuck can I tell him? - Whatever the man wants to hear, Jimmy.
Prodigal son.
Major, we got a good shot at clearing a couple of cases here.
One- - We're not here to talk cases.
I don't care about your cases.
Sit.
Relax.
I'm a reasonable guy.
In fact, everywhere I go, people say to me: "Bill Rawls, you are a reasonable fucking guy.
" - Am I right, Jay? - You are reasonable, sir.
Yes.
Yes, I am.
And because your sergeant knows me to be reasonable he came in here a couple weeks ago and reasoned with me.
Right, Jay? We reasoned.
We did.
We reasoned that despite his negligible Irish ancestry and a propensity to talk out of turn, Jimmy McNulty is a good worker.
Probably worth saving.
Major, I'm not- - He's a good-looking kid, huh? Do you know what we do here, McNulty? What we do here? That was one of them What is it? A question you don't have to- A rhetorical question.
You were being rhetorical.
Rhetorical and reasonable, sir.
We work murder cases here, as they come in, one at a fucking time.
It's called a rotation.
You're up till you catch one, then you step down, work it for a while someone else steps up.
It's a simple but effective way to do business in a town that has 250 to 300 cases a year.
Yes, sir.
But if someone gets it into his head to leave the rotation it puts an unfair burden on other detectives who have to pick up their casework.
Overworked cops make mistakes.
Mistakes lower the unit-wide clearance rate.
And that can make someone who is otherwise as reasonable as me Unreasonable.
Detective McNulty, I expect to see your ass back here next week when your shift rotates to night work.
He's up early today.
A lot of pager activity last night, too.
No woman takes that long.
Yeah.
But I look good, right? Wow.
You did all this? - Burned an egg or two.
Ain't no thing.
Yeah? My mama always said: "Don't let them get to cooking.
"Once they're in the kitchen, ain't nothing left to do but give 'em a key to your house.
" I don't want no key.
I don't want no house.
And your mama don't know shit about me.
Looks just like you.
Yeah, he do.
Where's his mother? Around the way.
Yeah.
You friends? You know, she want a key she want a house, she want a car, she wants some new clothes, a necklace some pocket change, a trip to the shore, she want a credit card with her name on it.
Ain't no such thing as free, right? When it come to pussy, there ain't no free.
I gotta go.
Been working on this one.
You'll get the lines on the other two payphones tomorrow.
So we up? - On the low-rise payphones, yeah.
Let's hear it.
See, what I'm talking about is he ain't paid no one, hejust think it's right to do it.
See how it goes? So I ain't got shit.
I ain't got it.
Damn, for real? Thinking he all that because he got his family back.
Hey, it was getting good.
It's unmonitored.
It's what? Unmonitored.
We can't listen to a conversation on an unmonitored payphone.
What's that mean? - We got a tap on the courtyard payphone.
By tomorrow, we'll be up on two near the high-rises.
But we can't listen to anything unless we know one of our targets is using the phone.
So we gotta be out there on those rooftops for hours watching these assholes talk on the phone? Yep.
It's more bullshit.
Detective, this right here, this is the job.
Now, when you came downtown to CID, what kind of work were you expecting? So what are you gonna do? I can't get back here in a week, this case is taking off.
You tell Rawls that? - No.
McNulty, Line 3.
Yeah? Where at? Thanks.
Yeah.
We're still waiting on a lab unit.
Do you have an ETA? Negative.
They're all out.
Damn dog got Norris, too.
You didn't think to warn me? Too much fun not to.
Damn.
Is he one of yours? We found him with Kevlar, like the one Worden caught last week.
We thought it might be a connection.
Yeah, it connects.
How so? Don't have a name, but he's part of a stick-up crew.
Took off a stash house last month.
My guy, Barksdale, is coming back on them.
In a big way.
They must've killed him four or five times.
Cut him in a dozen places, burned him with cigarettes.
Torture-fest is what it was.
Doesn't look like your scene, either.
Fuck him up somewhere else, dump him here for all to see.
Anything we can use? - Not yet.
We're up on some phones.
If I hear anything, I'll let you know.
Bring 22.
-22.
Anything yet? Or are we just gonna let this guy go ripe on us? - You been waiting for crime lab? - Over an hour.
Only two units on the street.
Both are up at the City Council President's house.
What happened there? - Someone stole his lawn furniture.
They're taking pictures of an empty patio, dusting the backyard gate for latents.
I kid you not.
I swear, you show me the son of a bitch who can fix this police department I'd give back half my overtime.
He was all cut up and shit.
His insides was hanging out.
Fucked up, yo.
I mean, damn.
Sometimes you gotta send a message, yo.
I mean, when you picked up that phone, what did you think they were gonna do? - All that shit is in the game.
You know that.
Yeah.
Like you and that girl, huh? - What girl? - The one in the apartment.
The one you told us about, remember? I mean, I like what you said about all that killing, you know? Especially that part about how it ain't gotta be like that.
Just sell the shit and move on.
Get me a ginger ale and get something for yourself.
Yeah, I remember that.
But it ain't like that, is it? Yeah, I know.
I know it ain't.
Thing about it was his eye.
His eye was blown out.
And the other one was open.
And yo, Dee, it fucks me up.
It's like he's looking out, like he sees everything, you know? Don't think about it.
Fuck! - Yo.
Let that shit go.
Just let it go.
Barksdale kid on the line.
He's beeping someone.
Yo.
What up? Hold on.
Yo, Strings! This is Dee.
Yeah.
Yeah, you hit me? Yeah, I wanted to know ifyou know a young hopper, the one they got down there.
Which one? - The fool, drop in there with a punch.
Yeah, what about him? - He got some problems, right? - What you mean? - Enough to bring home, right? You know, man, whatever.
All right.
They're bringing Bodie home.
A young boy who was with him, light-skinned kid from the cemetery.
Where? In the alley behind 800 block of Argyle, across from the low-rises.
Shot? - Stabbed, beaten, burned.
Jesus.
Yeah, we gotta get with Omar.
Yeah.
Impressive.
I don't often see a respondent come so prepared for a juvenile commitment meeting.
In addition to the signed statements from Preston's sponsors at the Police Athletic League I also have a Photostatted copy of a cashed check which indicates that he is enrolled in the GED program at the Baltimore City Community College.
Can I ask how this young man is able to afford not one - but two attorneys from your firm, Mr.
Levy? - This is pro bono, Your Honor.
My firm is making it a priority to identify a number of city youths who are in crisis, and to undertake efforts to reorder their lives.
Excuse me, I can't help but notice that your client is under a delinquent petition for the sale of narcotics, and further, for assault on a police officer.
Beyond that, he walked away from a JSA facility.
You Honor, my client stands ready to acknowledge that he was involved for a time in the sale of a small amount of drugs a transaction for which he received no remuneration having been manipulated by older traffickers in his neighborhood.
That was a mistake, Your Honor.
So noted.
We will contend that it was Preston who was the victim of a brutal police beating indications of which are still evident on him, Your Honor.
He struck back, wildly and in self-defense, Your Honor.
And the walk-away? Preston was heavily medicated when he left the Cheltenham facility.
In that state, Your Honor he was simply trying to get back to see his grandmother.
Did you know what you were doing when you left the Boys' Village, son? - No, I was messed up.
Anything else you'd like to add? Just I don't know I'm ready to be good.
Pending a hearing on these charges to be scheduled within six months I'm putting the respondent on home monitoring with his grandmother.
Your honor, I'm afraid Mrs.
Brodus doesn't have a telephone for any monitoring calls.
She's on a fixed income, Your Honor.
How about he calls his probation officer twice a week? Cool.
Whatever Your Honor.
Yo, Bubbles, what's the game? - Hey, Johnny.
Rubbing them down, huh? - Yeah.
What is the scam out here? - Ain't no scam.
Thank you, ma'am.
What you got here is an honest day's work for an honest day's pay.
Right, Lavelle? Mr.
Straight Time, Bubbles.
Gotta give something back when they least expect it.
Me and Uck, here, we got something on, too.
We got a plan.
No shit.
For real.
Yo, we're gonna take off on the copper house.
Damn, your first two days out and you get dramatic on me.
Copper house.
Got to be got, homes.
What about the fence? - Fuck the fence.
What about the dog? - Fuck the dog.
All that time I was resting, it got me thinking.
It got good to me, too.
Copper house.
Gracious.
I gotta go, can you cash me out? If you ain't got dreams, Bubs, what the fuck you got? Thank you.
Come on, dreamer.
Yeah.
One of ours on the line.
Got him.
Is Carv still there? - Hold a second.
Carv, call for you! - Yeah, hello? - You ain't gonna believe who I'm looking at.
Again he walks off? Ding! Round three.
Yo.
What up, man? - Yo, Stink, what up? - Where are your manners, fool? - Oh, my bad, yeah.
You need to keep your fucking head, boy.
Forgot.
What's up? Where you at? - Where you at? I'm down in the Pit.
Ijust came home I don't see nobody around, Ijust wanted to know what was up.
Ain't nothing going late, man.
Just catch us tomorrow, man.
All right? - All right, yeah.
All right.
Later.
"Non-pertinent"? How do you log that non-pertinent? No drug talk.
They use codes that hide their pager and phone numbers.
And when someone does use a phone, they don't use names.
And if someone does use a name, he's reminded not to.
All of that is valuable evidence.
Of what? - Conspiracy.
Conspiracy? We're building something here, detective.
We're building it from scratch.
All the pieces matter.
All right? Shit.
Shit! Are you fucking serious? Fuck, man.
You keep walking away from JSA, we keep kicking your ass.
I'm all right with that if you are.
I ain't walk away from nowhere, man.
Check my back pocket.
"Home monitoring"? - Yeah, man.
If you ask questions before you start wildin' on niggers, you might save some trouble.
How the fuck are you home? You ain't bright, man.
Juvenile judge, man.
He saw my potential.
He expects big things from me.
Yeah, like what? I don't know, college, law school, medical school, all that good shit.
Seriously, how are you out? - Look, I'm gonna tell you something.
Okay, this is just my opinion, but the juvenile system in this city is fucked up.
It's a big-ass fucking joke.
No offense.
Fucking fuck! You could give me a ride down to my grandma's, we'll call it even.
In back, fucknuts.
Get outta the street! Bitch! - Hey.
Hey.
What's up? What you need? - Little late in the month for this shit, isn't it? - What you mean? - For my aunt, she hit the Match Four.
You stealing from me, Cass? What? You look fresh today.
Got laid last night, that's why.
Oh, yeah? Your asshole still hurting? - Call Jimmy.
What's up, boss? Rawls finally got around to reading the office reports that McNulty tried to give him.
He wants arrest warrants for Diedre Kresson and the two project murders that match up to that gun.
I know.
Come on, Jay, be right on this.
I can't.
It's Rawls, he wants warrants today.
All right, no problem.
So who the fuck are we supposed to charge? You got a witness that puts D'Angelo Barksdale at the scene of the murder, the night of the murder.
You got a ballistics match between the Kresson girl and the two dead mopes in the project where Barksdale hangs.
Run with it.
This weak-ass shit is not gonna get past the Grand Jury.
Charge the mope, and work it more afterward.
Call Jimmy, let him know.
Yo.
All right, listen up.
New deal.
Wallace, you're gonna be on the stash now with Latroy and Peaches.
What about Sterling? He's gonna be down on Crescent, looking out for a while.
Cassandra, too.
What happened? - Nothing.
Why you wanna change up, then? - Nigger, I gotta explain shit to you now? Stringer Bell's pager number? - Stinkum's too, I'm pretty sure.
Very sweet.
If they moved around, then nobody would have problems.
They're a little lazy, you know tend to go to that one payphone in the courtyard a little too much.
Jesus.
He's lit at 9:00 in the morning? Or from the night before.
Detective.
Detective Polk.
Yeah, it's McNulty.
Bunk paged me.
All right.
Why did you even come in today? - I had some - To pretend that you were here? To fill out a run sheet? I know I missed a couple of days last week, Lieutenant, but- I got a run sheet from you every day for the last two weeks.
Twice in Carv's handwriting, twice it was Prez, once it was McNulty.
They covered for you.
But I won't.
Well, Lieutenant, I I don't know.
I'm not really up for this drug thing, you know? Maybe if Mahone was here, I could get into it more, learn some new tricks.
Hell, why don't you just send me back to Property and keep everyone happy? Send you back to Property Crimes so you can binge for two more weeks? I'm not doing that.
Lieutenant, please- - You were dumped on me, Augie.
But it ends there.
I don't dump people.
You either go out on those rooftops today to watch payphones with the others or you go over to the medical office and check yourself in.
Medical? - For alcohol abuse.
Either dry yourself out or go up on those rooftops wet.
Take a few minutes and think on it.
Where'd they go? - Who? Lieutenant we need a file cabinet or two.
The paperwork from this, I mean there's a lot of it.
Lieutenant sir I'm going to Good luck with the case.
Fucking Rawls, he's fucking up the case to get to me.
No, he's fucking it up for three paper clearances on prior cases.
It ain't personal.
All he's got is D'Angelo at the scene through hearsay and a ballistics match to a couple unrelated drug murders.
How can he charge that? He can charge anything he wants to get credit for clearance.
Grand Jury doesn't indict, he drops the case, keeps his stats.
I'll go tell him what the fuck he can do.
No you don't.
I'm trying to build something here.
Rawls just sticks a finger in my eye.
You talk to Landsman? - Jay can't fix this.
Rawls told him to have the warrants typed and ready by morning.
He's gonna charge murders he can't prove just to get the stats? And fuck up our case in the process.
We give up ballistics info and motive for the Kresson killing in the charging documents, and Avon Barksdale is gonna change up.
And what he don't change up he'll clean up.
Someone should tell Rawls.
Rawls couldn't care less.
He wants me home, and the stats, that's all.
Then we take it to Daniels.
Daniels? - It's his case, he'll fight for it.
He won't do shit.
He plays stiff every now and then, but he's a good man.
Are you kidding me? He's been trying to put the brakes on this for weeks now.
This'll be his new excuse to close shop.
Look, you guys gotta make your move soon, I'm sorry to say.
Freamon.
All right, Bunk, take care.
We tell Daniels.
Fuck Daniels and his ass-kissing up-the-chain-of-command ambition.
What other choice you got, huh? We go to Daniels.
If he fights, he fights.
If he gives it up to Rawls, then fuck it, we were never gonna do the case anyway.
All right, come on.
Fucking idiot! - Come on, get up, stupid.
I'm hurt, man.
What are you doing? Leave me alone! - What, are you on dope or something? - Mostly, yes.
Come on, get up.
You trying to rip out my guts? - Fuck.
What, are you trying to kill me, man? - Wait! Where are you going? - Listen, I gotta get help.
You can't leave me here.
You gotta stay with me.
Let's go over to the curb.
Just go get help, man! What are you doing? Stay there! - Damn, boy! What the hell come out of you? - Onion soup.
Campbell's.
Yeah, my plan! - Run, Forrest, run! You could go to Foerster, or the Deputy Ops.
Why come crying to me? Why not go to your friend, the judge? I don't see a circuit court judge being able to argue the city homicide commander out of three murders even if the cases are all weak sisters.
It's put-up or shut-up time, Lieutenant.
Either you step up or you send us all home.
So this is on me? I don't see anyone else in charge of this detail.
Rawls is a major.
Rawls is an asshole.
My point is, he ranks me on this.
Chain of command might mean nothing to you, McNulty.
What'd I tell you? - Yo, how we doing? - We doing good.
You know, if you say we doing good So the word is out about these stick-up boys, right? Yeah, y'all being heard.
There goes shorty right there.
What's up, man, you know I'm a man of my word.
I said it would be $4,000 to Omar $2,000 on each of the young ones, this being a team effort.
I'm putting $500 in the boy's hand who's doing the scope $500 in your hand for doing the relay put $500 in Wee-Bey and Bird's hands for doing the muscling up.
All right.
How you doing with that other thing? What? Everybody a little depressed, right? Oh, yeah, you know, ain't no surprises yet.
Cut everybody loose on Friday and they all just a bunch of begging-ass bitches.
I mean, ain't nobody showed no money since.
You gonna keep it humming, cuz? - Yeah, you know.
Oh! You got your hands up.
You keep on doing like how you're doing we'll talk about points on the package.
All right? - All right.
Keep it humming.
Yeah, most def.
All right, then.
Take it light, but take it.
Hotter than the Wu-Tang, killer bee.
-40 cents.
Not 40 cents a foot, no sir.
Look, respectfully, I gotta tell you for 40 cents a foot, you might as well go to Home Depot, pay them.
They're gonna charge you For copper that isn't stolen.
Look, all right, 35 cents a foot.
And that's in respect I have for y'all, what you're doing in our community with these quality domiciles here.
Thirty cents a foot, take it or leave it.
I understand the interest in clearing these cases, I do.
But charging those murders now and putting the information that we have into the charging documents I just call them like I see them, Lieutenant.
Three murders, same gun, we got this Barksdale kid right at the scene on the one.
We're up on the wire.
We're starting to pull good information.
You charge these prematurely and Barksdale will change up on us.
The work we've already done- - Look I can't tell you how to run your case, I can only run my own.
Major I'm asking as a favor.
As a favor.
Yes, sir.
A favor.
In that case no.
Sorry.
You got home from work early today.
Yep.
Work sucks.
Are we eating dinner with you? - Why not? - You promised we'd eat lasagna.
So we'll go to Little Italy.
Get some lasagna at Sab's.
You never cook.
Yeah, cooking sucks, too.
Who's this? - Hey, yo, I wanna see him.
Who? - Brandon, my boy.
Copper house, yo.
Was the shit.
My plan, Bubs.
Johnny had a plan.
Get out the way, motherfuckers.
This here is White Boy Day.
I got a plan, too.
What? We're gonna wait for that cheap-ass, speculating motherfucker to put that good copper line back into them row houses he's fixing up.
Then, before the drywall get up we creep back in there, and steal that shit right back.
Gotta come back at the motherfucker for that, you know? Yeah.
You good? I could top off with one more.
Yeah.
Just one more.
Johnny got it.
I'll be back.
It's my night with the kids.
You ain't gonna find nothing, because I didn't do nothing! Why don't you just leave me alone, man? A white man can't walk down the street? What's that about? Come on, man! It's messed up, all right? Profiling! What? It's 'cause I'm white, right? Why don't you let me Oh, man, what the fuck's that? What's that? That boy ain't got no luck.
All right.
Hold up! - Hey.
Hey.
So, what are you going to do with your money? You know what you should do? Take the whole roll and do something nice for your girl.
You do have a girl, right? Anyway, you've got enough money to go get yourself one now.
Why'd you punk Sterling like you did? I mean, he did get shot behind this shit.
I didn't punk him.
So why are you dropping the lookout? Cass, too.
'Cause they was thieving.
Both of them.
They got pissed 'cause I wasn't paying them.
So Sterling started shaking up the vials, handing off to Cass.
She was selling on the side.
You didn't tell anybody? Stinkum, Bodie? They don't know? If I tell them, what you think they're going to do? They're going to take a baseball bat to Sterling.
Cassandra, too.
It's too much drama, right? So, I just took them both off the stash.
So why didn't you pay us? That wasn't right.
Listen, man Stringer thought we had a snitch down here.
You know, with the jump-out, Omar, all that shit.
So he told me to punk you all for a little while.
See who was still holding money at the end of the week.
Was they snitching? Sterling and Cass? No, man, just thieving.
All right, going to Homicide.
Okay, you two, you sit right here, okay? Don't wander off.
Dad? - What? It's a school night.
Mom said we had to- I know, I know.
We will.
Just stay there.
Runners at second and third, nobody out yet here in the first inning.
Here's Mora at the plate, and the pitch is high.
Lopez on the mound.
The pitch is outside.
them have been balls.
It's a ground ball down the right-field line.
You up to this? Pay it back, Omar.
Pay it back.
Why we ain't in a real police office? We're a little like you, Omar.
Out here on our own, playing the game for ourselves.
Hard way to go sometimes.
Sorry about your friend.
Avon is one sick bastard.
Of course, he had his reasons.
For one thing, you all did take his stash.
For another, he's looking for you, Omar.
That's what all the cigarette burns were about.
The broken fingers and cracked forearms.
He wanted your boy to give you up.
An address, a street.
Kid had heart.
Yeah.
I know you want to go to wherever it is you lay your head and pick up that sawed-off you like so much, and go on the hunt.
That's how a man like you wants to carry.
You wouldn't be wrong.
No, you wouldn't.
But one man with two barrels ain't enough, Omar.
Now, you're going to do what you're going to do.
But whatever else you can give us on Barksdale and his people that can go to hurting him, too.
Just throw us what you can.
Let me tell you all something, all right? What I do, I do, straight like that.
Ain't no sense in you all troubling yourselves over that 'cause the way I feel right now, today What do you all need from me? When did you last see Brandon? Tuesday around 7:00.
Maybe later.
He was on his way down to Mindamin and the Greek's after that.
Everybody's talking about he got snatched up from there.
The Greek's on Baltimore Street? Yeah, he liked to play the pinball games to death.
He go alone? Yeah, and I didn't like it none, neither.
But you can only treat a young man like a boy for so long before they book.
When Bailey got killed you must have figured Barksdale was coming back on you? Bailey? Please.
That nigger's enemies got enemies.
I just figured he tried his hand on the wrong corner and got dropped.
But you were worried about Brandon, right? Look, in my game you take some kid, you play it the safest way you can.
But it ain't about no hiding forever.
You heard? Frankly, you been in it as long as me you do the thing on your name.
Anyone going to come after Omar, they know Omar's coming after him.
Oh, indeed.
So, who came after Brandon? I heard it might have been Wee-Bey his boy Stinkum and Bird.
He was down with the snatch, too.
So, what can you give us on the job? had an incoming call to D'Angelo Barksdale's, giving him the number of a pay phone.
Westside exchange.
Number's encoded, right? Three minutes later, we get another call from the low-rises to that number.
Then, a half-minute later, you get another call from the low-rises to a pager we know is Stringer Bell's.
I'll be damned.
Finally, you get another call.
Probably from a pay phone.
Probably Stringer Bell calling back.
Coming on into the low-rise courts.
Forty-five minutes later, another call.
This one from the same pay phone that went to D'Angelo's pager to start the whole thing off.
You see that? This is the murder, right here.
This first number, the one they sent to D'Angelo I'm thinking this comes from a pay phone over by the Greek's.
He's on you.
We're up on those pay phones Tuesday night we catch that murder.
We get there before the murder.
It's all here on the pen register.
This one calling that one, that one calling back.
We're up on those pay phones when we should be, and we have him cold.
But we're not up in time, are we? In this case, we're never where we need to be.
Bad time for you all? He fight, but you arrest.
You saw him get arrested? - On Tuesday? - Tuesday, yes.
Tuesday.
By the police? The police arrested him? Cops, they handcuffed him? What about these guys? Were they there with him? No.
He fight, you arrest.
Right.
Okay, thank you, sir.
Thank you.
It's a match.
No.
I need help.
Rawls ranks me.
Lieutenant, think what you're doing here.
You're going to cross Bill Rawls as ruthless a fuck as we have in this department? And to do what? To fight for a case the Deputy of Operations doesn't even want.
No.
I like my career, thank you very much.
In the cemetery, you were telling us that a guy named Bird killed the working man.
Yeah, the man who testified.
William Gant.
Right.
Yeah, Bird did that one, for sure.
How do you know? - Everybody knows, man.
Nigger walked up behind the man and shot him in the head.
The whole blessed project saw that much.
And Bird worked for Avon? Yeah, as one of his shooters.
Liked to use this real sweet gun he got.
A.
380 from Austria or Australia.
Something like that.
But I know he loved that gun.
A.
380.
Yeah, a.
380.
You get him, you get the gun.
'Cause Bird's too dumb to throw a gun like that off.
A gun alone ain't enough.
Oh, no? He testifies he bought the gun on the street after Gant was killed.
What would be enough, then? - Eyeball witness.
Some kind of corroboration for what you're telling me here.
Okay.
Okay, what? - I'm your man.
You saw the murder? Yeah.
You can ID this man, Bird, as the shooter of William Gant? And you ain't afraid to go into court and testify against one of Barksdale's people? Omar don't scare.
The fact is that while Lt.
Daniels and his merry band are lost in the swamps playing with beepers and pay phones and body mikes my people have developed information that ties Barksdale to three killings.
D'Angelo Barksdale, not Avon.
D'Angelo on behalf of Avon.
The victim is identified by our witnesses as being involved with Avon Barksdale.
Sir, we're developing- You're dancing around this thing.
I'm charging three murders.
You charge those cases, my investigation folds.
Not one of those cases is strong enough for court.
You know that.
So we bring the Barksdale kid in throw a little mindfuck at him and the case becomes stronger.
You've had him in the box twice before.
He's gonna go for less the third time.
So we re-canvass, develop fresh witnesses.
The case I charge on today can be twice as strong by the trial date.
We get a conviction we roll Little Boy Barksdale into Big Boy Barksdale then we go home like good old-fashioned cops and pound some Budweiser.
This is bullshit! It was McNulty who made the ballistics match on these murders and he's telling me to fight this.
He knows you don't have a viable prosecution so do you, so do I.
Enough.
Look, I've got no love for your wiretap, Lieutenant.
I'm spending $2,000 a day over the unit operating budget to staff the case.
Now, Major Rawls here is offering a chance to leverage Barksdale through a murder prosecution.
Why not jump on this? Because if Major Rawls is right then he will be just as right a month from now.
If the wire doesn't give us a case, he can charge all the murders he has.
We lose nothing.
But if he's wrong if he can't convict, or if the Barksdale kid doesn't flip then it's too late to do anything else.
Avon Barksdale changes up his pattern, and the wiretap dies.
At that point, there isn't going to be a thing that you, or me, or Rawls here is gonna be able to say to that judge.
You wanted to see me, Major? McNulty does personal business on the clock, I want to know.
He cheats on a run sheet, I want to know.
He runs any kind of game at all, I want to know.
Major, the man's an asshole but he doesn't do much other than work.
He's got this case in his gut like it's cancer.
He does no wrong? Doesn't drink anymore? Doesn't drink on duty? Doesn't drink and drive, Detective? - Major - You've got to help me on this, Michael.
The murder warrant's on hold.
The Deputy gave us another month.
Also, whoever that was you brought in here today gave himself up as an eyewitness to the Gant murder.
Who? Omar? Greggs said to tell you she'd write it up in the morning.
Lieutenant thanks.
It cost you?
Low man scrapped, yo.
He all the way down.
But we going to start fresh on the latest tomorrow - down from up North.
No problem.
No problem? - Yeah, yo's talkin' about some guy named Lohman, who's down with strep - like he's sick.
And the last part? And the last part is something about how he's gonna start up a Fashion Lady or some shit.
Fashion Lady? - I'm fluent in the Perkins Homes and Latrobe Tower dialects, but I haven't quite mastered the Franklin Terrace.
He's saying they're sold out in the low-rises so tomorrow they're gonna start fresh with a new package.
That's what you hear? - Listen again.
Low man scrapped, yo.
Low man, meaning the low-rise pit.
He all the way down.
Is down to scraps on the last package.
But we going start fresh on the latest tomorrow down from up North.
Tomorrow, he'll start fresh on the latest package.
Damn, how you all hear it so good? "Gold Coast slave ship bound for cotton fields "sold in a market down in New Orleans.
" What the fuck is that? Rolling Stones.
First two lines to Brown Sugar.
I bet you've heard that song 500 times, but you never knew, right? I used to put my head to the stereo speaker and play that record over and over.
That explains a lot, actually.
So, wait on black, yo? - What's white on black? Wait on black, right? Even I heard that shit.
Black's code for Stinkum.
We picked that up once we got on his pager.
Now, there's gonna be a re-up of four G-packs in the low-rise court.
Stinkum is on the re-up and it's gonna go down around noon.
Are you sure about all that? Turn it upside down.
Four hash marks in a row, one for each G-pack "LO" for low-rises.
-12 for the time.
"S" for Stinkum.
How long to figure that out? - Four or five hours.
You sit here looking at beeper messages for five hours at a time? I don't know, it's kinda fun figuring shit out.
You're not helping me out here, Sanny.
Major, I- - I ask you for one fucking thing - I know, but I don't- - All these months, I'm carrying you.
I'm sitting here, watching case after case stack up, right? These are all yours, and they're all open, Sanny.
Last year, your clearance rate was I caught some tough ones.
There's not a lot of dunkers in there.
Mike, you're good on the dunkers.
I'll give you that.
Shit, comes to dunkers, you solve probably 6, 7 out of 10.
But a stone fucking whodunit? - That's not a fair assessment, Major.
Fair? What the fuck is fair? I got a detective out there, unsupervised, running his own special ops unit burning me every chance he gets.
It's not my job to fuck another cop.
Not your job? Tell you what, Detective.
I'm gonna be so fucking fair I'm gonna give you the choice.
Either bring me something on McNulty, or go out there and do your job.
Pick a file, any file.
Major- Pick a murder and solve it or bring me McNulty, there's no third choice.
Stinkum will have a runner with him.
The runner's gonna be holding the package.
When you get them, ride the bumper.
So he knows we're there? Right.
Lay on the blue light if you need it.
Now, the runner's gonna bolt.
I got the runner, you stay with Stinkum.
No.
I got the runner, he takes Stink? - No.
You both take the runner.
And Stink gets away? - Nobody gets away.
If we pull in Stink on a car stop now, we got to give up PC which means we got to give up the wire.
We didn't set all this up for two days' worth of coke, did we? We snatch the runner, stick a hook in him and go back fishing.
And between the wiretap and the runner bolting from the truck we got a charge on Stinkum any time we want it.
We're also edging back into old murders, pulling up fresh witnesses.
And there are assets to be seized, stuff that fronts for the drug money.
Like what? - A strip club a couple of Westside laundromats, a triple-A rated towing company a funeral parlor.
A funeral parlor? - He bought out one in Gwynn Falls last year.
The money's going everywhere.
That's just what we know from one of Avon's girls bragging to a friend.
God knows what else he's got that we don't know of.
Understand Barksdale's name is on nothing.
He's always a step or two removed.
It's a career case, Your Honor.
Look here, Jimmy.
You misspelled "culpable" and you're confusing "then" and "than.
" T- H-E-N is an adverb used to divide and measure time.
"Detective McNulty makes a mess "and then he has to clean it up.
" It's great that you're going through every word- Not to be confused with T-H-A-N, which is most commonly used after a comparative adjective or adverb, as in: "Rhonda is smarter than Jimmy.
" Yeah? Look, there is more than enough indication of progress to justify continued intercepts.
I'll sign an order for 30 more days on all taps and clones.
One copy to the court, one to the State's Attorney? - Anything else you need? - What, from you? I think I'll go see a man about a dog.
It's always a pleasure, Ms.
Pearlman.
Your professional demeanor and your overall competence stands in stark contrast against the usual municipal backdrop of mediocrity and indifference.
Sarcasm, Judge? - No.
Another 10 years of this nonsense, and I see you wearing the robes of the District Court for Baltimore City.
That or a straitjacket.
Jesus.
I would love to throw a fuck into her.
The red hair, freckles Don't you think, Jimmy? As in all matters before the Court, I think whatever the Judge thinks.
Come on, Jimmy.
Sit.
Talk.
-12-14.
What's up? Eastbound on Preston.
Stinkum and a young boy riding shotgun.
They're at the light right now.
Got them.
Let's see how he plays it.
Fucking shit.
He's gonna bail any moment.
Jump out! - Bail-out on Druid Hill, 700 Block suspect wearing gray sweats, running into the court.
Fuck me.
Close shop.
Police.
C'mon, shorty.
Step.
He ain't man enough for you.
Re-up! Hello, Officer.
Run, man! - Move, motherfucker.
White man walking! Yo, move, shorty, that's my re-up, yo! - Goddamn.
He's coming back! - Give it up, son! - Cut him off, cut him off! Yo, get him! - I got the bag! - He's going right.
Get the bag.
Yo, move, man! What's up? Damn, motherfucker.
Bet you don't do that shit to a white man.
Y'all get the fuck away from him.
That man ain't did nothing to nobody.
Four packs.
Street-ready.
-12-08.
-12-08.
Need a wagon inside the 800 block of Lex - inside the court.
-10-4, 12-08.
Anyone got a smoke? How are you sitting with your bosses? Rawls tried to close this thing down last week.
Blow the wiretap by charging some weak-sister murders.
What stopped him? - Daniels.
Daniels? - I couldn't believe it either.
I'm ready to throw in the fucking towel, Daniels stepped up.
Yeah? Why didn't you come to me? You don't trust me no more, Jimmy? Who dropped a dime to that newspaper reporter, Your Honor? Where you been? anybody'll cough up a dial tone.
No, it's 50.
I got another week before my homicide shift flips to night work.
I'm not back with them, Rawls sticks it to me.
You got a friend here.
Worse comes to worse, Pearlman goes to her bosses.
The State's Attorney's office still has some love for you, Jimmy.
I'm starting to worry more about the people who claim to love me than the ones who don't.
Now? Yeah.
Somebody's hitting Stringer Bell's pager from the Number 2 payphone in the Tower Court.
Now? - Now.
What's up? - Freamon.
Visual on Stinkum.
Yo, we lost four to 5-0.
What? - We lost four.
Yo, why the fuck are you telling me this? I'll talk to you later.
Does he think I can just pull it out of my ass? Can't go outside and play till your homework's done? Can't do shit till I clear this case for Rawls.
How old is it? Old and cold.
Yours to begin with? Then, my friend, you are double-fucked.
Motherfucker.
Son of a bitch! Give me the card.
You sick, heartless bastard.
Come on, give me the card.
She was a gypsy woman She was a gypsy woman - Madame Laurie? - You scoff? Madame fucking LaRue, Jay? Better men than you have turned to this lady in their dark night of dead ends.
You're not serious.
I don't joke when it comes to Madame LaRue.
The woman, she has an unexplainable gift in matters of death investigation.
She transcends the rational.
Give her a call.
He's dropped here, so the dumpsters cover it from this side.
But everyone over there with a window had a view.
Merit badge for two good little Scouts.
Ma'am, you need some help with that? - I'm all right.
Please, it's our pleasure.
Let me understand.
Y'all hang around the projects, white and black together ties and jackets on, looking to help ladies with their shopping carts and whatever else.
Police, right? Afraid so, Ma'am.
About the murder a while back, right? Maintenance man? The defendants can take a seat.
The judge will be in shortly.
Can I take the file? - Here.
Thank you.
Excuse me, Ma'am? - Detective? - I need to pull one out.
Yeah, which one? Let's see.
Dope, coke, dope, theft, dope loitering, coke, attempted theft, dope dope, theft, dope, and the charge du jour is possession, to wit, cocaine.
But you need him? - I need him.
Okay, he bounces over to drug court pleads to possession and agrees to probation with ongoing treatment.
That's it? - That's it.
Okay.
I'm with your boy Bubs.
You want out, right? - Yeah.
Plead guilty to possession and convince the drug court judge you want to get your shit clean.
Drug court? - Shake it off in treatment go to some meetings and pee when they tell you to pee.
No jail? - No jail.
I'm out right now? - Soon as you're processed.
Okay.
Dead man was coming this way and another man was walking behind him.
Must've said something to him, because he turned around before he got shot.
Do you know the man who did it? - No, sir.
What'd he look like? - Who? - The bad guy.
Light skin, medium height.
Didn't have no meat on him.
Young or old? - He wasn't young.
Okay, if you pretend my partner here is the victim and I'm the guy with the gun - This close? - No.
Like that? Yeah, that's about right.
Do you think, if you saw this guy again- - I didn't Ma'am, please, don't be afraid.
From where I was sitting, his back was to me.
It's all right, you done good.
You have any trouble at all, you call us.
She can't make a positive ID.
My man Omar can.
A stickup artist with a half-dozen priors.
That's your eyeball witness? She corroborates him on the details, right down to the close-range shot.
We've also got Omar saying if we jack Bird, we'll get the gun.
Says he's too stupid to throw it off.
So, between her and Omar, a match on the gun gets us over.
It happened like you said like it was a plan.
It was a plan.
What's your address? What's the apartment? Kid, what apartment? Come on, kid, what's the apartment? -11-M.
Okay, 11-M.
Is that so hard? What's your DOB? Come on, kid.
What? It's him.
Who? Kevin Johnson? You hungry? Ham and cheese? Tuna? I want a Reese's, yo.
Peanut butter cup.
Drink? Tea in a can.
You got it.
Go down to the machines.
Get a peanut butter cup and a can of Lipton's tea.
Motherfucker can't even look at me.
What say we start over on this? - Start over? My lawyer said I got a case against y'all for this shit.
Fuck the lawyers.
I'm trying to talk about life here, Kevin.
Game already cost you, right? More than it should have, I know.
Whose fault is that? His.
Ours.
Mine, maybe.
Thing is, I feel like I owe you something here.
So, I'm asking how you want to carry this.
You want to get out? You want to do something else with the rest of your years? You come see me.
Tea was sold out.
Might be tomorrow, might not be for a while.
But when you're ready for something different, give me a call.
I'll remember.
Motherfucker thinking he can pimp me over a candy bar.
I'm thinking it might be a drug thing, or maybe straight-up robbery.
You're Irish, no? - Italian.
Santangelo? - Santangelo.
Saint Angelo.
Early martyr, patron saint of Licata, Italy.
Prayed for his killer with the knife still in him.
But it's not Saint Angelo calling.
It's Saint Anthony who wants to help you.
He does? Very much.
Ain't he the guy you call when you lose something? You sure that's Anthony? Go to the victim's grave, bury the statue wait an hour, a full hour, no shortcuts.
Then dig it up.
Go straight home.
When you go to bed, hold it to your ear.
And he tells me who did it? I think it was my turn to pick.
Yeah, definitely my turn.
You had me down at the B&O the other night.
After you dragged me to the Sugar Hill Tavern, remember? No.
Hey, Turk.
Where's Nadine this fine evening? Gainesville.
Been down in Florida at her sister's all damn week.
Shame to say, though.
Lack of pussy will change even a good man's demeanor.
Sweet as can be.
Marla.
Good to see you.
You remember my husband, Cedric? Yes, I do.
Nice to see you.
Marla's with me on the GBC's downtown redevelopment committee.
She's the one that prods me awake at the meetings.
That was drastic stuff.
Everybody was nodding off.
That last one was so long- - Excuse me.
I think it's the best ticket in years.
$500-a-plate fundraisers for a police lieutenant? Even in this city, that constitutes cruel and unusual punishment.
And which member of the ticket has so energized you? The Mayor? Council President? - The Registrar of Wills, maybe? - The Mayor, I might recognize if I saw him.
For the rest, I'd pretty much need B of I photos.
You're not wrong, Lieutenant.
In this state, it's a thin line between campaign posters and photo arrays.
Pop quiz.
City council? Eastside, maybe? State senator.
Clay Davis, from the 39th District.
Vice-chair on the budget committee.
You'll never make Major at this rate.
Excuse me, while I do my duty and kiss some senatorial haunches.
Clay, nice to see you again.
Come on, let's roll.
Ain't you gonna sign it? No, you get that back when the meeting's over.
And if you don't stay, we don't sign.
That's how it works.
Come on, I want to see the show.
Bubbs.
We continue to take personal inventory and when we are wrong, promptly admit it.
We sought through prayer and meditation to improve our conscious contact with God, as we understood Him I ain't seen some of these faces in so long, thought they were dead.
Same thing, ain't it? Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps we try to carry this message to other addicts and practice these principles in all our affairs.
Today's speaker is going to be Waylon who, if you come to these meetings, you have to know.
Hell, you all know I'm Waylon, and I'm an addict.
Hi, Waylon.
And the fact is that I want to be clean today more than I want to be high.
I know that's right.
It's good to be here.
Hell, it's good to be anywhere clean.
Even Baltimore.
I been clean a few 24 hours now, and I'm still dead certain that my disease wants me dead.
Yeah, I'm in here with you all, talking shit about how strong I am, how strong I feel but my disease is out there in that parking lot, doing push-ups on steroids waiting for the chance to kick my ass up and down the street again.
Scars on my hands, on my feet two bouts of endocarditis Hep C and whatnot knocking down walls and kicking out windows in my liver.
I lost a good wife bad girlfriend, and the respect of anyone that ever tried to loan me money or do me a favor.
Pawned my pickup, my bike my National Steel guitar and a stamp collection that my granddad left me.
And when it was almost over for me and I was out there on them corners not a pot to piss in, and anyone that ever knew me or loved me cussing my name, you know what I told myself? I said, "Waylon, you're doing good.
" I surely did.
I thought I was God's own drug addict.
And if God hadn't meant for me to get high he wouldn't have made being high so much, like, perfect.
Now, I know I got one more high left in me but I doubt very seriously if I have one more recovery.
So if there's anybody out there that sees that bottom coming up at them I'm here to talk sense.
I don't care who you are what you done or who you done it to.
If you're here so am I.
That's right.
The Mustard Seed Group gives out key chains for stretches of clean time.
So if you've earned it, come on up and get it.
Does anybody have nine months? Does anybody have six months? - Does anybody have three months? - Yeah.
Does anybody have one month? And now, for the most important person in this room does anybody have 24 hours or a sincere desire to live? Yeah, all right.
We shoved off this morning.
"God grant me the strength "to accept the things I cannot change "and the courage to change the things I can "and the wisdom to know the difference.
" What's the score? Orioles, 4 to 3.
Bernie Williams just doubled, though.
They always let the Yankees back into it, always.
No, they got a bullpen this year.
Who's pitching? - Buddy Groom.
Who you driving for? Marla Daniels.
I'd love to crack this here crib.
Yeah? Good day's work.
Good day's work.
What about the alarm system? Shit, I'd wire that weak-ass thing back on itself pull the truck up, bust through those French doors.
That'd work.
Yes, indeed.
Sell most of this good shit around the way but some of it, like the art and all, I might have to run it up New York.
Name's Damien Price.
But I mostly go by Day-Day.
I'm Cedric Daniels.
But I mostly go by Lieutenant.
Look, they're bringing in Roberts.
There you are.
There's somebody I need you to meet.
Go on.
Yeah.
Take it all off.
Rub them together like that.
See here, motherfucker.
You got to put this Gant thing on Bird and you got to do something with that other case the young girl.
Diedre Kresson.
You need to be able to charge both them murders and then you walk that on up to Rawls.
Now, you see, Jimmy here's the hard part, for an asshole like yourself: You just got to give him them clearances like a goddamn gift.
And then you still might have to kiss his ass for about three, four motherfucking months.
You're gonna have to do it.
Three or four months? Got to, Jimmy.
Too fucking late to do anything else.
You gonna be one ass-kissing white man.
You know why I respect you so much, Bunk? It's not 'cause you're good police.
'Cause, you know, fuck that, right? Fuck that, yeah.
It's not 'cause when I came to Homicide, you taught me all kinds cool shit about I don't know, whatever.
Whatever.
It's 'cause when it came time for you to fuck me you were very gentle.
Damn right.
See, 'cause you could've hauled me out of the garage and just bent me over the hood of a radio car.
But no, you were very gentle.
I knew it was your first time.
I wanted to make that shit special.
It was, man.
It fucking was.
Take your fucking money back.
No, this is mine.
Take it back, you old whore.
Turk.
Can I get one more? What's up? - They up there, right? - Yeah, they up there.
Hey, Dee.
You get a chance, man, let me pull your coat to something.
I got a little move we might could do.
So get with me after, okay? All right.
Most def.
The only reason why I even called Bell was because these niggers- You're not supposed to talk shit on the phone and you know that.
What's up, bro? Who's snitching? - Nobody.
Is you sure on that, man? You done had the stick-up, then the jump-out.
Now, they running up on Stink.
My crew, we tight.
All right? Ain't nobody holding no extra money.
I checked all that.
Maybe your ass just ran a stop or had a taillight out or some shit like- You think I'd run a stop with $40,000? - Fuck no.
Nigger, I don't know.
Something is up.
So go down there today tell them hoppers you got working for you down there that this shit is about to change.
Stringer gonna come down there, he gonna run through the changes.
Until this shit is straight, the Pit is dead.
Thing is, why they didn't pop Stink? Knockos took the boy and the package, and they got Stink by the tags on the truck.
You took that down to the police and filed a report, right? Truck, I ditched that shit up off Cold Spring Lane, man.
You ain't heard nothing from the knockos yet, right? - No.
What the fuck? They catch four packs popping out the truck.
They don't even get the plate? What's all this shit? Something's up, man.
Something is definitely up.
I got somewhere I gotta be.
Cover me with Daniels, will you? Asshole.
Herc, Carver.
What? - What? Come here.
Come here.
Them two is freaks.
Stash-finding motherfuckers popped the package from nowhere.
Who you talking? Skinny black motherfucker and that ass-ugly knocko.
The white boy with the ball cap.
The ones who jumped Bodie? - Batman and Robin.
All right? - Bang.
You got them, baby.
I'm Batman.
I don't think so.
Batman's white.
And Robin's black? You heard the hopper, you're the ass-ugly white guy.
Boy Wonder, why don't you suck my bat-dick? Get the fuck outta here.
Why don't you sign this for me there, Mr.
One-day Man? God have mercy when they piss you, boy.
You mean the god of my understanding? No, we gotta get you some clean piss, you know so you can take up into your probation office.
Yo, Bubs.
Who the fuck do we know with clean piss? - So you're ready to charge this one? - If we luck into the gun, yeah.
And then we tag-team Bird.
If we get him with the gun, we take it federal.
Five years minimum, and he's got prior felonies it's a lot more.
We got an address we want to hit? We're working with informants.
As soon as we get something, we jump.
warm air for the afternoon partly sunny, windy and warm with a chance of thunderstorms high up to 83, and then on Friday, clearing and windy with a high near 70.
Weather updated around the clock on WTOP radio.
I'm meteorologist Dave Lew at the Weather Channel.
This is the WTOP radio network.
You worried about being seen? If anybody got a problem with me spending time with y'all I'd be much obliged to stick my gun straight in their mouth.
How's that work? Bird not up in the mix today.
If we had more than a street name, maybe we could come up with an address.
What can I say? Out here, Bird just Bird.
So, what up, you all fixing snatch him from out here? That's the plan.
He don't pack down here, none of them do.
And that's the rule.
Now, if you want iron, you gotta go to one of those kids up in the towers.
We need the gun.
Then y'all got a problem.
Without knowing his crib, we definitely got a problem.
Not unless y'all know where Bird like to cop.
What, Bird gets high? - Not in the towers, he don't.
Avon ain't having his people using.
That's another rule.
"Never get high on your own supply.
" Now, if I was hunting Mr.
Bird I would consider the best package to be the red Dilly that's over there in Carrollton.
That's if I have to be constabulating like you all.
Carrollton? I know one thing, when you all run up on him, you all best be more careful, that is.
Why is that? Bird will throw down without thinking, for sure.
Poot.
Where Wallace been at, man? I don't know.
He in the wind.
Wallace been fucked up.
Since they got that stickup boy, you know? Put him on the car like that.
Wallace all quiet and shit.
Don't even come out his room some days.
I'm looking for Dee.
You seen him? Dee.
Chilling? What's up? - What're you doing down in the projects? - I got something, man.
Something right.
Come on over.
Where the shop at? Nothing today.
See, that's the thing, 'cause if you need more of that I got this connect.
Yeah? This guy I know from the club, he from D.
C.
He got this thing through New Orleans, these Jamaicans down there.
New Orleans? They're offering weight, Dee.
My uncle know about it? - No, see.
This thing on the side for me I got enough to turn a New York quarter on it but I don't have what you got right here with the distribution.
You see what I'm saying? I'm saying, Dee, I'd be taking all the risk with them peoples.
Once I have the package, I bring it down here to you, and you put it out.
We do an even split on what comes back.
Right? Let me think on that, all right? Finally get some ends for us.
You see what I'm saying? Yeah.
Yeah, most def.
I'm out.
Be good.
Think on that.
$5 hats, right here.
$5, baby, $5.
$5, yeah.
Everybody, $5 hats right here.
Which door are we watching again? The vacant next to the store.
That's the shooting gallery.
Is he still in there? Greggs is on the back and we're on the front, so you tell me.
Yeah.
$5 hats, right here.
$5, baby, $5.
I got you right here.
Cover up that head of yours.
You know what I mean? Can't beat that, right? $5 hats, right here.
$5 hats.
$5 hat there, mister.
Fuck you, man.
Take them.
Shorty.
Get your hands back.
I got him.
Get off me, man.
Get the fuck off me.
I got the feet.
Bitch-ass cops! There we go.
Yeah, look what we have here.
Baby.
Get the fuck off me.
My hand.
Fucking bitch.
Shut the fuck up! Shit is tight, man.
We should leave the couch right there, right? - Yeah, leave that shit right there.
That's nice, that's straight.
So? What's the deal, String? - How often you all changing the stash? - Every night since we got jacked.
Anybody on the team getting high? - No, man.
Just the old touts.
And they ain't handling no money, no vials.
You all been going in and out of the vacants? Making sure them narcos don't set up in there? Yeah, for sure.
I got no cell phones, no house phones neither, right? No, man, nothing but these pagers and them pay boxes over there, that's it.
All right, tear them motherfuckers out.
What? Tear out them phones.
From now on, you all need a payphone, you walk a few blocks and you do not use the same phone more than once a day.
You hear me? - You hear me, right? - Done.
All right.
Bey, tear them motherfuckers out.
Come on, man.
Man, come on.
Get off the phone.
So, we wanted to hang the velvet backdrop with the Lexus and the pit bulls but it's still out at the dry cleaners.
But seriously, folks, we really wanted to show all the jurors that you left our little interrogation here without any more scuff marks than what you brought in.
Fuck you, fat man.
"Fuck you, fat man.
" I thought we were friends.
That gun is downstairs now, in the ballistics lab.
It comes back on a dead state's witness, then you're gonna see death row.
You up for that? - Suck my dick, dyke cunt.
Where's my lawyer at? Freak.
Cunt-eater.
You got one chance, you stupid motherfucker.
You roll back on the people you killed William Gant for or you gonna eat the whole meal.
Tell you what gimme this hand back and step to me, and I'll fuck you in all three holes.
Fucking charmer, this one.
Bitch.
You ain't got shit on me.
One of you should go in.
Is she in trouble? Kima? He keeps this up, she'll cut his ass.
You ain't shit! You ain't got shit on me! So, you're my eyeball witness? So, why'd you step up on this? Bird trifling, basically.
He killed an everyday working man and all.
Don't get it twisted, I do some dirt, too but I ain't never put my gun on nobody who wasn't in the game.
A man must have a code.
No doubt.
Man, I know you from somewhere.
Yeah? I was in Southwestern before I came to Homicide.
Worked Frederick Road.
No, I mean, back in the day.
You go to Edmondson, right? Yeah, you was ahead of me.
I remember you was the first brother I ever seen play that sport with a stick.
What's it called? - Lacrosse, man.
For sure.
Yeah, I was All-Metro attack.
Prep school boys used to pee themselves when they see old Bunk coming at them.
So look here, homey.
Seeing as how you're being all charitable with your recollections what else you got in the way of open murders? - Going to Barksdale? - Going anywhere.
How far back do you want me to go? - As far as you need.
Murder stay murder.
Thanks.
Gun matches.
You're done, Bird.
Last chance to grab a little something for yourself on a deal.
Eat my shit first, you downtown white whore.
Yeah, that's right.
Take this ugly-ass cunt-eater with you, too.
Yo, I'm cuffed, man.
You gonna at least give me a fair chance, right? Come on, man.
Don't do me like that, man.
You fat fuck! Take these handcuffs off, man! Fulton and Baker, you say? It happened last year, couple days after Easter.
This girl by the name of Neecee.
She about 30, 35.
Denise Redding.
Yeah, I got it.
I'll be damned.
Bird sure know how to bring it out in people, don't he? Hello? The Lindsey case, right? No, Lindsey.
Martin Lindsey.
Who the fuck is Denise Redding? - What the fuck did you do to him? - Here's yours, Mike.
I don't even fucking remember this one.
I swear I don't.
Well, it's down.
Our boy gave us a statement, two witnesses and an ID of your shooter.
Take it with our compliments.
Sanny.
What are you doing downtown this time of night? Madame fucking LaRue? I gotta thank you, Jaybird, you saved my fucking life here.
Only thing I can't figure is I asked for help on the Lindsey case, not this one.
Mike fuck the gypsy shit.
These are the guys that saved your ass, right here.
Thanks.
Jimmy.
We gotta talk, man.
It's about Rawls.
What's the plan here? Drunken fuck on a Tuesday night? - Is it Wednesday morning? - I'm not drunk.
It's Rawls.
He's going after my badge.
What? They're gonna do me, Ronnie.
They're gonna do me.
I love this fucking job, and they're gonna do me.
Come on.

Number 18.
Conine.
I knew that one.
All right, this one's for Mikey.
Can I help you? - Yeah, one lemonade, please.
You ready? Number 6.
I know it.
David Segui? - Melvin Mora, numbnuts.
I thought Mora was number 9.
Guys, we're gonna play that spy game.
Remember the spy game? - Yeah.
Who's it? That tall black guy over there.
You're supposed to say African-American, Dad.
African-American, then.
I'm the front, you're the follow.
I was the follow last time.
Don't argue, go on.
Go.
Come on! I got him.
Yeah, they're both brown hair, one that big, the other about that big and he's wearing, I don't know what the fuck he's wearing.
He's Will Michael and Sean McNulty please report to the offices at the rear of the market.
Michael and Sean McNulty.
Please report.
One pay phone goes down, don't mean shit.
Both at the same time, that's a plan.
We spooked them.
Busting the runner? Maybe it's that, maybe it's something else.
We still got the tower phones.
And we're up on Stringer Bell's pager now, too.
Yeah, but this shows just how cautious these guys are.
We make any play, and they're ready to change up on us.
If they're not using the pay phones in the low-rises then what are they doing? They're walking to another pay phone.
We might see more traffic on the tower pay phones.
Sergeants' test's tomorrow, right? You ain't gonna take it this time? Sure, why not? - You ain't gonna study? - Sure I am.
You guys need to follow some of the boys out of the Pit and see what they're using for pay phones.
Excuse me, is that a direct order? I'm just saying- If you wanna follow these assholes from phone to phone why don't you do it yourself? I'm in-office, remember? - Right, they took your gun.
For shooting your car.
No, that was before.
That's right, that was something else.
Right.
You believe this guy? Like there are fucking stripes on his sleeve.
You guys need to get up on those rooftops today.
See what these mopes are using for phones.
Come here, look at this shit.
What the fuck is that? - Let me look at that shit.
Bird told me that shit.
Fucking peter-puffer, get the fuck out of here.
Mr.
Omar, you want ends on this? No, darling, I'm cool.
Nice shirt.
Yeah, fuck you.
It takes guts wearing a pink shirt on the BPD Homicide unit.
Yes, it does.
Guts, or a familiarity with alternative lifestyles.
What are you chasing? - Toyota Camry.
Whose? It's listed to some woman with a county address but Saturday, my man Stringer Bell was using it.
You were working the weekend? No, I'm down in the Northeast market with the kids, right? - Who should appear before me? - Market day for String, too? I know he makes me if I get too close, so I tell Sean and Michael front-and-follow.
They're so good, I lose track of them, scared the shit out of myself.
But they stay with him, spec the Camry and Sean, my flesh and blood, gets the tag.
Your kids know front-and-follow? They fucking love it.
We play spy in the mall sometimes.
Anyhow, I got a Woodmore address of a woman who lends her wheels to Stringer Bell.
It's a start.
The fucking family McNulty.
Jesus.
What? Wallace.
What? - Yo, Wallace.
What? - What's this about here? This one here? "A bus traveling on Central Avenue begins its route by picking up eight passengers.
"Next, it picks up four more, and then an additional two, while discharging one.
"At the next-to-last stop, three passengers get off the bus "and another two get on.
How many passengers are on the bus at the last stop?" Just do it in your head.
Yo, testers coming out today.
New package.
I might be down later.
Later? Look, I'll catch you around the way, all right? Wallace, man, you can't just lay up in here.
Seven, right? - Dee been asking about shit.
So what? - I been telling him you sick but you know he won't let me carry that too much longer.
Now, look, I be down later sometime.
No, man, testers gonna be out.
Look, man, fuck the testers, all right? Fuck the testers, fuck Dee, fuck all that shit.
Just let me hold $10, and I'll give it back to you by Friday.
How? Dee ain't gonna pay you for not working.
Look, you gonna let me hold $10, or not? Eight? Damn, Sarah, look.
Close your eyes.
You working a ground stash.
20 tall pinks.
Two fiends come up and ask for two each, another one cops three.
Then Bodie hands you 10 more, but a white guy rolls up in a car waves you down, and pays for eight.
How many vials you got left? Fifteen.
How the fuck can you keep the count right, but not do the book problem? Count be wrong, they'll fuck you up.
No, he coming to you.
Today? - Yeah.
He in a rush or something? No, we told him to do it like that.
He had his hand out last night and we told him first thing today.
He ain't coming into the tower? - No, not like that.
Just run 20 on down to him.
He gonna roll on his way, all right? - Be there in, like, an hour, maybe.
Who gonna know? - Little Man, he know Day.
All right.
That was Stringer Bell? Calling tower pay phone number 1, after taking a page 15 minutes ago.
We know Little Man? - Yeah.
Enforcer in the 221 building.
Okay, so he's rolling out of the with 20 whatevers to hand off to someone named Day.
Product coming out of the towers.
We're usually trying to catch it going in.
Yeah, if you wanna catch them, we're gonna have to hustle.
Wallace, man, he bugging.
Where he be at? - Nowhere.
He just lays around all day, you know? Begged my ass off for sandwich money.
You worried about him? I mean, shit ain't right, Dee.
You might consult with him some.
What the fuck, man? If he don't wanna be down here, that's on him.
I mean, ain't like nobody holding no gun to his head or nothing.
Yeah, but he ain't about nothing else.
He up in his room and shit, all the damn day.
All right, tell Wallace to come see me.
All right.
Be right back.
It's been two hours.
What if Little Man ain't working in the 221 today? What if this Day guy don't come? What if he came, and we missed the pick-up? Yo, Herc, what if your mother and father never met? - How's shop doing? - Steady rolling.
All right, let's take a ride.
Beef run.
Beef run, where at? Pulaski, baby, the good shit.
Get in the car, man.
Yo, Poot.
You the man for an hour.
Shit, look at me.
Kima.
The Lincoln, we're on it.
Hang back.
Let's see where he goes.
I don't understand that, never did.
Damn, Bey, how can you stand that shit with all that hot shit on it? Man, trick is not to give a fuck, boy.
I got this, you know me.
So what? My uncle's cut y'all loose today? No, we're celebrating.
Stinkum got some points for some fresh territory.
I heard about that.
How much is yours in the package? We gotta run off the niggers that been down there.
Ain't no thing.
Bunch of off-brand niggers is all.
You keep running that pit the way you been, you gonna see points, too.
Yeah, you know, shit, I'm here waiting.
It'll come, right, Stink? Yeah, I been talking to Orlando, right? He said he got this good coke connect from New Orleans.
Orlando? He want me to put what he can get out into the court, a little extra on the side.
I don't know, Dee, you better talk to your uncle about that.
Yeah, definitely.
Hear that? Yeah, I'm gonna see what he say on it.
Yeah.
But, you know, today is your day, man.
Stink day.
His night, too.
Yeah, man, we gonna break out tonight, daddy.
Bring some of Orlando's good pussy over there by Little Man's.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You up there? You up? - Yeah, he up.
You up.
Nigger, I'm up! You don't gotta ask twice.
What's wrong? - No.
He give a fuck now.
Water.
Step out of the car, sir.
What did I do? Step out of the car.
Go around to my partner, here.
Man, look, I'm already late.
Put your hands on the roof, please, sir.
Sir, you were observed in one of the city's designated drug-free, anti-loitering zones where a drug suspect leaned into your vehicle handing you something.
And when we signaled for you to stop you leaned over as if concealing something - beneath the passenger seat.
Look, enough of this shit, now.
Is there something beneath that seat, sir? - No.
Then you don't mind if we look, right? Fuck y'all.
This is some bullshit.
That's none of your business, all right? - How about if I make it my business? You rang? - Who's he? - Damien Lavell Price.
He takes $20,000 in cash out of the 221 building.
Lester picked up the drop from one of the tower phones.
We followed him up Reservoir Hill till he spotted us.
He's a legislative aide? - Who paged me? He's in your office.
We popped him with $20,000 in cash.
What kind of PC? - Right off the wire.
Stringer Bell to someone on a tower phone.
We thought we were gonna come up with drugs.
Got money instead.
I know this guy.
Orioles won last night.
Bullpen stood up to Boston.
You get that money cracking cribs, or what? I'd like to speak to my attorney.
He was driving for a politician at this fundraiser I went to.
Which one? - Someone from Annapolis from the looks of his ID, anyway.
What do we charge here? - He say the money's his? He doesn't say shit.
Keep the cash, write him a receipt.
He wants to put a claim in to the city solicitor, he can.
But they're gonna ask him where he got the pile.
The angel of death.
Who's that? Major Reed, IID.
Lieutenant, a word.
What's up? - How you doing? - Me? Yeah, you.
Everything is good? I'm all right.
I mean, you fixed for cash or something, man? 'Cause if you need a little something really, the thing to do is just to ask for it.
That's all I do, is put money in your pocket and make sure you don't stray from the nest! Sit down.
Listen, the last motherfucking thing I need is for the clean name on my liquor license to be dirtied the fuck up by you.
You understand that? Avon, come on, man.
Do your fucking job! I checked with the state Personnel Department.
He's on the payroll of Senator Davis' district office for more than a year.
He did four years in Hagerstown for daytime B and E.
Before that, drug charges and a PBJ on a check charge.
And now we catch him coming out of the towers with $20,000 in manicured, banded money.
You brought him in here on what charge? Civil forfeiture.
Until he tells us a legitimate source for that money, we keep it.
So you have no criminal charge.
No, just the money.
Give it back.
Sir? - Give the man back his money.
Sir, we pulled this off the wire with one of our suspects telling another to expect a pick-up.
It's drug money in that car.
Give him back his money.
Write it up as an unwarranted car stop.
Now I ask you to put a charge on a drug dealer, Lieutenant.
That's all I ask.
And now I got wiretaps, pager clones, affidavits coming out of my ass.
And you're in people's shit where you're not supposed to be.
Sir- - I'm shutting this down, Lieutenant.
You charge what you can, and you do it by the end of the week.
We did nothing wrong here.
You jacked up a senatorial aide.
You went into his pocket, pulled out $20,000.
And though there's no criminal charge, you think it wise to try to keep it.
You shit all over yourself all over me, all over this department.
Now, I told you, no surprises, remember? $20,000, even.
Sign here, or you can count it yourself, if you want.
So I can leave now? Will somebody please tell me what the fuck that was about? This is bullshit.
We just gave back 20 large of Barksdale's money.
Hey, what the fuck? Let me guess, the Deputy? How's he got onto this so quick? - I told him.
You told him? Why would you be telling him? He's the Deputy for Operations, I arrested an aide to a state senator.
How do I not tell him? Have you noticed there hasn't been a complaint from the senator? Know why? What is his driver doing coming out of the high-rises with so much money? - I told the Deputy that.
What did he say? Mind our own business? Give the man back his money and go the fuck away? Pretty much.
Except he said a few things for my benefit, too.
Like how I had shit all over him.
Like how he was shutting us down this week.
The fuck he is.
We're done.
I go past Friday, and I'm buried.
He told me that.
He's gonna bury you? For what? You're doing your fucking job.
You think the job is gonna save me? You think it's gonna save you? Chain-of-command.
That's all I got from the Deputy, today.
Chain-of-command? Did you tell your major about the senator's driver? Or the Colonel? No? Then where's your chain-of-command? What's the shift lieutenant doing going up the back stairs to the Deputy Ops? - What are you saying? - Nothing.
Goddamn right.
Why, he got something on you? You say you got the Deputy's ear.
What the fuck's he got on you? Only rank, Detective.
Yo, Stink.
What about the rules, yo? Special occasion, yo.
Yo, Bey.
I'm gonna throw up.
No, you ain't.
Burrell thinks I crossed him.
He said this to you? In so many words.
You need to explain then- - Explain what? That I'm bringing in a case that goes everywhere? Today, it was some senator's driver.
Two days from now, a city councilman, maybe.
He asked for a charge on Barksdale.
That's all he asked for.
This thing with the legislative aide, who could've foreseen it? He saw it.
Burrell.
See, this is the thing that everyone knows and no one says.
You follow the drugs, you get a drug case.
You start following the money, you don't know where you're going.
That's why they don't want wiretaps or wired Cls or anything they can't control.
Because once that tape starts rolling, who the hell knows what's going to be said? That son of a bitch McNulty asked me what the Deputy had on me.
He actually asked me that.
What did you say? Where everybody go? Where the girls go? Fuck it, man, party broke.
We drunked out and fucked out.
You all send me out for liquor, and by the time I get back, the shit is dead? Look at this.
The Knicks done fucked up their draft again.
What's with her? Oh, fucked her silly.
What can I say? She snorted half the shit we brought up in here, too, that greedy bitch.
Yo, Bey.
You wanted to see us? - What the hell is this? I got copied this morning.
It's just what it looks like.
A memo signed by the Deputy Ops, Rawls and Forester, telling us to pack it in.
We come down on the wire by Friday, ship the computers to the DEA by Monday and charge whoever we have by the end of next week.
Yeah? Who do you have? Couple of mid-level guys.
Anton Artis, a.
k.
a.
Stinkum.
Shooter named Bird, wanted for killing Gant.
He was the witness in your court.
That's it? - Except for a couple of hangers-on, yeah.
Why are they doing this? Why now? We picked up a bag man coming out of the high-rises carrying $20,000 in cash, yesterday.
So? - So, he works for Clay Davis.
Of the 39th Legislative District.
The deputy was displeased.
It's okay, though.
We gave the money back, said we were sorry.
What can Daniels do? - Not a fucking thing.
The Deputy sent him the same direct order you have on your desk right there.
Get me Burrell on the line! Detectives, when you swore that your affidavit was true to the best of your ability, what did the Circuit Court of Baltimore do? - You gave us the wire.
For how long, Detective McNulty? Sixty days, no? And how long have you monitored these phone extensions? Forty days, maybe.
Deputy Burrell is on the line.
Erv, it's Phelan.
Kiddo, you're fucking with me here.
Yes, you are.
Erv, listen to me.
The Circuit Court signed two orders for a total of 60 days of telephonic surveillance.
Now, I'm looking at a copy of a memo from your office telling me I can't have my 60 days.
You're not hearing me.
The Circuit Court for Baltimore ordered 60 days on this tap.
The Court wants its 60 days.
Now, if you take this wire down on Friday, you'll be in contempt of court on Monday.
Understood? And all the best to Arlene and the kids.
Yeah.
Who's your daddy now? Look, I didn't do a damn thing, Lieutenant.
You got a beef, it's with the judge.
Yeah, he got the Deputy's memo, he called his own shot.
Ask Greggs if you don't believe me.
Look, I've got to go.
Kima.
Deputy called, mad as the devil.
Tell them to quit packing.
We're back up on the wire.
Kima.
McNulty or the judge? Or both? This time, the judge.
Ask me a question.
Any question.
I thought you weren't studying.
This job is common sense.
Ask me a question, dickless.
See how I do.
"According to Q1 -" Hold up, help me out, here.
You have to know them by the numbers? It helps.
Makes it sound more professional that way.
"According to Q1 "the general order covering sexual harassment "in the event a female officer in your squad complains "that her side partner has sexually harassed her "you should: Notify the commanding officer.
Notify the shift lieutenant.
Notify the ranking female officer.
" I go with D.
D? Yeah, bitch-slap the side partner for dipping into my private stock then take missy home and fuck her till she smiles.
What the hell? When a small change in price creates a large change in demand then demand is said to be elastic, but some products are inelastic.
Meaning, a change in price does not affect demand.
Some key factors that affect the elasticity of demand are what? - Mr.
Bell? - Desire.
Consumer need.
Right, specifically, the ability of a consumer to delay acquisition.
What else? My pencil lost its point.
All the girls say so.
Damon, we got work orders here, and ain't nothing happening.
These jobs were due yesterday, and people going to be coming in here asking for their work and nothing been done.
Man, fuck them.
Let them wait.
No, you are not going to bring that corner bullshit up in here, you hear me? You know what we got here? We got an elastic product.
You know what that mean? That mean when people can go elsewhere and get their printing and copying done they gonna do it.
You acting like we got an inelastic product and we don't.
Now, I want this to run like a true fucking business.
Not no front, not no bullshit.
Understand me? I'm serious.
Where you snatch this old wreck from? - Out Frederick Road.
Ditch it over Eastside when we done.
Check it.
Him there, and that other fool there.
They the only ones might be trouble.
I'll drop Scar, you just drop that other motherfucker.
No, just Scar.
His boy break, we going to let him.
But if he raise up, I'm on him, see? - Damn, I wish Bird was here, man.
Bird be loving this shit right here.
Which do remind me, we get up out of here you need to drop that shit down a storm drain.
Now give me some time to go around the block and set up on the other side, all right? What up, who got black tops? Hey, now.
What the fuck? Listen here, Bey.
You come at the king, you best not miss.
Stink's been got.
Stink? - Bey caught one, too, in the leg.
Shit, man, what happened? - They down the gulley on Edmondson.
Fucking Scar, man.
No, it ain't him.
Omar, man.
Omar? Bounty's going up on that bitch.
That fucks us.
We had Stinkum tied up with a bow from the arrest of the runner and now he's out of the case.
The man's a fucking loose cannon.
Literally.
We've got to pull his ass up at least.
There's a dime on this cocksucker's head.
One of you motherfuckers needs to step up.
Where you go with that? - Maryland General.
Walked up in there and told them I was on the corner, caught a stray.
Police come talk to you? - Just a roller, no homicide.
Put it out there.
Not just our people, either.
I'm talking about any nigger who wants to step up.
Put out the word.
There's $10,000 on Omar or any motherfucker standing with Omar.
Y'all niggers ain't got shit to do but be on this motherfuckin' hunt.
Now be on it.
All right.
So, what you think, homes? I'm thinking this is the worst part of the game.
Best we do is break out even, right? - What? I'm saying, this shit got personal.
Ain't nothing else to it.
So, you talking about letting it slide.
For a time, maybe.
I'm saying we put the word out that you ready to talk a truce.
When this nigger come out from underneath his rock, you hit him.
But right now? This shit got out of hand.
What you want me to say? Look, I don't know nothing about Stink getting dropped and I don't know nothing about Bey getting shot, either.
I don't know about this crazy nonsense.
I don't know, it came back to us quick.
You know how that be.
Everybody want to believe the worst about Omar.
But live and let live, you know? I don't see you letting them slide on Brandon.
If I was coming after certain people I definitely wouldn't want to give y'all fine people any cause for concern.
There are rules here, right? - Rules? - Yeah.
No mistakes, no bystanders.
No taxpayers getting caught up in the mix.
I mean, you just get in close and you hit the right nigger.
And lose the gun afterward, that'd be a rule, too, I think.
One thing, Omar.
Having Stinkum dropped kind of fucks us on our thing.
How so? We had Stink caught with And maybe we could've built something on that.
Roll him up with Stringer, maybe.
Now he's got no roll to him.
So, the point is, Omar, while we're all grateful for the case you gave us on Bird, and we admire your do-it-yourself nature- We need you to hang back.
Look, man, it ain't all up to me, right? I got a bounty on my head.
Yeah, we saw the van.
Look, man, I do what I can do to help you all, but the game is out there.
And it's either play or get played.
What, that it? Gentlemen.
Ma'am.
Lester, are we still cops? - Technically, I suppose so.
Okay, I was just checking.
Keisha ain't called, and she ain't been home.
How was she when you left her? She was sick, I told you that.
She missed work last night and she ain't been down there to pick up her check today.
You know something? This game this thing with my uncle might not be right for me, I'm thinking.
Why do you say that? Nothing good to it but the money.
Sounds a lot like my job.
I mean, you got people using each other.
Scamming each other.
Cutting each other up because they're late on a bill.
Shooting folks because there might be a fucking dollar in it.
It gets to sometime like I can't even fucking breathe.
Like I can't even get no air.
You know what I mean? Do something else.
So, you happy with your job? - Shit.
Well then, do something else.
I am.
I'm going to have to.
Shit.
Can't stay pretty forever.
It's not forever, right, Dee? And then what? You pretty now.
Now we pretty.
You got me, holler back.
Dee, man.
Raise up and roll in quick.
Stink been got, man.
You hear me? They got Stink.
I need your help.
Who caught the one from Edmondson last night? Anton Artis.
Cole, with an assist from Dunnigan.
Omar was the shooter.
Fuck me.
It's all over the wiretap.
Okay, let's see.
We put down one murder on the testimony of one eyewitness who then goes out and drops somebody else.
Yeah, it was payback for his boyfriend, Brandon.
Anton Artis is Stinkum, one of the boys who snatched Brandon and did him up.
I'm sure that motherfucker had his reasons, Jimmy- You want to give back the Gant case, then tell Cole the name of his shooter.
Otherwise, tell him we're hearing talk on the wire and we'll give him his clearance once we wrap our case.
But you won't.
No, we won't.
You want me to go and bullshit Cole out of his case for you? - Why don't you go tell him yourself? - Are you kidding? If Rawls sees my fingerprints on this, he'll run my nuts through a cheese grater.
Fuck you, Jimmy.
How's it going with it? - Pretty good.
I like this kid who's fucking my victim's old girlfriend.
Ray, can I talk to you for a minute? In my office.
With cases like this one, you are put in some strange fucking places.
Cole's doing good this year, he don't need the clearance.
All right, I know this fucks him.
You should've seen his face when I told him you'd give him his shooter down the road.
He's happy? Yeah.
He looked at me like a damn puppy.
I'm sorry, Bunk.
I'll carry it.
Fuck it.
No, tonight's mine.
Look, I'll tell you what, I'm going to roll out.
Here's the money I would've spent on your ass.
Jimmy.
Call Nadine and tell her I caught one, and I'm out on the street.
I lied for you, didn't I? - You got a minute? - Yeah, what's up? I think I might have fucked something up.
Yeah? I'm interviewing Omar, a few weeks back.
And he's giving it to me that Bird is the shooter in the Gant case.
He tells me, if we catch up to Bird, he'll have the gun on him.
Which he does.
But the thing is I told him that we needed an eyeball witness.
At which point, he volunteers.
Maybe he saw it.
Or maybe he put himself in it just to see Bird locked up.
I got the impression there wasn't much love between them.
I fucked up, didn't I? A little.
But the gun matches.
And he's consistent with our witness on the description and the scenario.
So, don't sweat it.
Kima.
You know, interrogation is more art than science.
You've got to feel your way through on instinct, mostly.
Come, take a look at this.
Who are they? Some dancers who work at Barksdale's club.
I pulled their names off of liquor board complaints and state employment records.
If you were going to try to turn one these girls, which one would it be? Her.
Why? She doesn't have a record, for one thing.
She's just a DMV photo.
Why else? I don't know.
I can't really say.
I like her face.
Soul, conscience, whatever you want to call it.
She's a citizen, right? It's in the eyes.
Instinct, Detective.
Yeah? What? Who is this? He did? How the hell did you get my number? Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
Ma'am? - Get this crazy bastard out of here.
What's the matter? - He set off the smoke alarm, twice.
That good? In the bathroom.
Bunk, it's Jimmy.
What the fuck? Bunk, wake the fuck up.
Bunk, wake up.
What? - The fuck are you doing? - I hear you, Jimmy.
What are you doing? Where are your fucking clothes? Right here.
Who gives a shit? - Come on, man.
No.
What did you burn your clothes for, man? Got hair, got fibers and got pussy on it and What, trace evidence? You smell pussy? I don't smell no pussy no more.
Knock it off.
I think you all can just take my ass home.
Trace lab ain't going to have shit on the Bunk.
That shit.
No fucking case file, Detective.
Where are your fucking shoes, man? Ma'am, you seen his shoes? Give me that pussy, and now you going to take my shoes? That ain't right, shit.
Shit.
Christ, Jimmy.
Bunk, I'll give you that burning trace evidence makes sense.
What the fuck did you plan to wear home? Shit.
Jimmy, you know something? You're no good for people, man.
I mean, damn.
Everybody around you Christ.

Him on the ball, from Dunbar.
He junior college now, but he going to bigger places if he can make them grades.
He our edge, right there.
Where he going? - I don't know.
Terps, Hoyas, Missouri, Kansas, they all want this cat.
Okay, so we in the mix, too, now.
You know what I'm talking about? Blow Proposition Joe's mind.
He ain't got nobody balling like this.
He better not have one motherfucker balling like this.
I'm tired of losing to these Eastside bitches every year.
It's been three years running now, man.
Fucking with my morale, for real.
What happened to the faggot? Omar? - That nigger in the winds, man.
What you mean he in the wind, man? This city ain't that big.
You know what that nigger do when he holed up somewhere? He peel off one or two packages, roll around the neighborhood giving away free vials and shit.
Yeah, on some real Robin Hood type shit.
If we try and get at him we going to have two dozen niggers saying that we on our way.
If you want us to hunt that nigger, we going to hunt.
But the smart play, I think, we call a truce put this thing on hold for a hot second.
Let the faggot get comfortable and when he do, he'll pop up his head.
Boom, we got him.
What will motherfuckers be saying while we waiting? What people going to say when they see this cocksucking faggot out in the sunshine? Like it ain't no thing to take my shit.
Kid's everything I said he was? - Yeah, he is straight.
Don't know what we're going to do without him next year.
How come you ain't signed? - Lot of schools looking at me.
I'm listening.
$10,000, though, that ain't bad, right? - It ain't.
$10,000 for the kid, plus $5,000 donation for the program.
Done.
Good.
Give me 30 from the line and get out of here.
Yo, man, good job, baby.
All right, big guy.
And I assume there's another $5,000 right here, for making this happen? Ain't shit for free, right? So, what you do for money? Can't live without it, right? You still fucked up behind that stickup, man? Shit ain't on you.
It ain't on me neither.
Motherfucker who robbed the stash shot Sterling.
He gonna get got no matter what you or me do.
I just don't wanna play.
I don't wanna play no more.
All right? I was thinking about going to school, over at Edmondson ask if they'll let me back in at the end of the semester.
What grade? - Ninth.
Ninth? Shit, you how old? Sixteen.
Sixteen.
Damn, man, you supposed to be a junior by now.
I heard Stinkum got killed.
Yeah.
Damn.
I said I don't want to play.
I heard you.
And you ain't got to do nothing.
I heard you.
Take it.
Hurry up, nigger, people looking.
Look here, man, you a smart little motherfucker.
You start back up at Edmondson you likely to finish up at Harvard or some shit like that.
Believe, B.
And you got a good heart in there, too.
Not like the rest of these niggers.
Yeah? - Ronnie Mo on Tower Phone 2.
Right.
Where the fuck you at, man? You coming to get this shit or what? Keep cool, we making rounds.
You know I ain't moving like I used to.
All right, couple hours, we be at you.
All right.
Wee-Bey picking up at the towers? - In a couple hours, give or take.
Time enough for us to make a play.
What's up with Wallace? Nothing.
Nothing? Nothing.
It's all good, just leave him be.
Damn.
Fuck.
I'm tired of not having a phone up in this joint.
I'll be right back.
Yeah.
Have a nice hike.
Yeah.
Hello, you make order? - Who this? You make order? Good yakame.
What? - Or no delivery.
You make order, you come get.
Good yakame, good noodle.
Extra ketchup.
What the fuck was that? That was my Korean counterman.
Sounded Chinese.
Like you can fucking tell the difference.
It's a brave new world for you, boys.
Request a lateral with - Where you at? - McCullough above Preston.
We're on a good pay phone that the pit boys are now using.
I'm up on the church.
Hang close, boys.
Might have a nicejack-up for you two.
I can't believe these boys still in business, man.
Testers, testers coming in five.
What's the new package, man? Yellow tops.
Shit is the bomb.
Now shit is the bomb.
Check it.
A man who wants to get high more than he wants to get clean.
He was doing good, too.
Told you, it was bullshit.
Them meetings were just fronts.
The man sounded strong, you know? Whatever.
It's about that time.
Shit.
What happened? That's the boy who beat me down, man.
The shits right here is yellow tops and they right so remember where you caught this blast and tell your fiend-ass friends.
Line the fuck up.
Back up.
Get in line, what the fuck? Line the fuck up.
Get the fuck out of here.
Damn, fuck you all.
Hurry up.
Over here.
Get one, girl, over here.
I got one.
You get one? Hold up.
You catch one? You know, I got three if you need.
You was at the meeting over at Samuel Morse.
Mr.
One-Day Man.
It wasn't even that.
Stood up, though.
Why you down at the tester line if you ain't chasing? Trying to get my little nephew off the corner.
His mama sent him up to Cumberland, you know? Try to keep him clean at my grandma's.
He ain't anywhere near his bottom.
Got to see that bottom coming up at him.
Hard, too, 'cause he's young, 24.
Most people don't get tired till they're 35, 40.
How old are you? - Young at heart.
Walon, man.
Bubs.
Give them a long rope.
The farther away from the projects you pop him, the less risk to the wire.
Hell with the wire.
Excuse me? Gotcha, McNulty, you're too easy.
You can come at this a few ways.
First thing is we need the names of all front companies limited partnerships, LLCs, and all that mess.
LLCs? - Limited liability corporations.
Start with the nightclub which Barksdale owns.
Look up Orlando's, by address, you match it, and you see it's owned by who? It's on Baltimore Street, right? Got it.
D & B enterprises.
Give it to Prez, who's going to get off his ass and walk on over to the state office buildings on Preston Street.
Preston Street? - Corporate charter office.
Corporate who? They have the paperwork on every corporation and LLC licensed to do business in the state.
You look up D & B Enterprises on the computer.
You're going to get a little reel of microfilm.
Pull the corporate charter papers that way write down every name you see.
: corporate officers, shareholders, or more importantly the resident agent on the filing who is usually a lawyer.
While they use front names, you know, as corporate officers they'll usually use the same lawyer to do the charter filing.
Find that agent's name, run it through the computer find out what other corporations he's done the filing for and that way we find other front companies.
While he's doing that, what do I do? You're gonna to keep your head in this assessment book.
Look up any properties that you can connect to Barksdale.
How do you know it connects to Barksdale, right? You work off of what Prez gets you from the corporate charter documents.
Whatever companies he links to Barksdale or people connected to him you look for those companies in the city land records.
For example: McNulty said that he heard that Barksdale owned an apartment building up on Druid Park Lake.
You look up all the blocks on Reservoir Hill.
See if there's anything owned by D & B Enterprises or any other company that Prez finds through corporate charter or anything similar.
Ifyou find something that fits, you write down the folio number so that you can look it up later at the courthouse.
You don't find anything just take the names of all the corporate listings for the multi-units near the lake.
You call that list over to Prez, who pulls the charter papers and he'll look for connections.
It's like a scavenger hunt.
But what if Barksdale is careful? I mean, what if we can't find his name on anything? In this country somebody's name has got to be on a piece of paper.
A cousin, a girlfriend, a grandmother, a lieutenant he can trust somebody's name is on a piece of paper.
And here's the rub: You follow drugs you get drug addicts and drug dealers.
But you start to follow the money and you don't know where the fuck it's going to take you.
While we're running around on this, what are you going to do? - You need something? - Yeah.
Let me get the campaign financial reports for the western districts and actually, any citywide race.
You want quarterly reports or individual donor lists? - Both, please.
It'll be a couple hundred pages.
Really? I'll take all of it.
What the fuck, man? With your right hand, reach for the window, open the door.
Come on, hurry up, man.
Step out of the car.
Drop the cane, toss the cane.
Come around to the back.
All right.
Turn around.
Sir, is there anything in the vehicle we should know about? Nope.
No guns, drugs? Me ain't got shit.
This money right here, I didn't just pull this out of your truck? What money? Damn, we'll be counting this limp-dick cash all day.
Where you guys going with all this? Like the man said, it ain't ours.
It ain't yours? So, you don't mind if we just take it off your hands? Do what you feel.
You pretending to take money out this truck.
I didn't even know it was there.
You know, I know how that shit is.
The other day, I took up the sofa cushions off my couch found $1.
40 I didn't even know was there.
You all ain't got no charge, right? No, fucker, we do not have a charge.
We just got your money.
You want it back, you can explain it to the state's attorney where you got it.
You all enjoy your day now, you hear? As I wake up in the morning And get out of my bed Give me three.
As I wake up in the morning And get out of my bed I'm thinking about the people I grew up with long dead The brothers I grew up with, locked up I'm freestyling off the top of my head You know, it's swell, Patti LaBelle I like her But Regina Bell is better Motherfucker! Motherfucker, trying to steal our shit.
Motherfucker! - Fished your wish, Bubbs? - Yeah.
And you should've seen the one that got away.
I nearly got killed behind this caper, you know? It's all in the game, Bubbs.
Yeah? This ain't shit.
I'm not high, neither.
It's fucking Arm & Hammer.
We just been firing baking soda.
It's all right, man.
I'll just come up with another plan.
I did it once, right? Fuck me.
Carv, you go to a restaurant and say the waitress gives you good, decent service.
How much do you tip? How much do I tip? - For good service.
I don't know, 15%.
Some people tip 20%.
Some people got money.
What you think Wee-Bey would tip? You'd be a clever motherfucker if there wasn't a wiretap running.
What do you mean? Say we turn in $20,000, and this afternoon, the bosses are listening to the wiretap and they hear we took $30,000 out of that car.
Didn't think of that, did you? We're finding a lot of stuff on the west side of downtown that might be his, over by that Howard Street corridor.
What kind of property? - Low-rent commercials.
A lot of vacants.
The fuck does Avon Barksdale want with a string of empty storefronts? - This feels premature.
What does? Chasing up assets.
We're not close to putting a charge to the man.
That should be the priority.
We put a charge to Avon Barksdale the Deputy shuts us down, tells us to go home.
You want the money side of this case, it's now or never, Lieutenant.
I'm working here.
Maybe $20,000 or $30,000.
Dollars for donuts.
You should've seen the looks on their faces.
What did Wee-Bey say? - "What money?" The only hassle is we need to sit here and count this shit.
Do the ECU Submissions.
And it's all limp-dick, dime-vial money.
Dirty bills right off the corner.
You all got the pit boys on a fresh pay phone, right? - Yeah, on McCullough.
You take pictures? Good, we're gonna need an additional affidavit to get up on that phone.
Another 30 days, McNulty? What the fuck did I do? One day he fights, the next day he's ready to roll over.
Does he want this fucking case or not? - Give him some slack, Jimmy.
He's wrestling with the angels on this one.
Where's my lucky pen? - You ready, bitch? - Yeah, I'm ready.
I wanna get on my knees and suck you like a great big lollipop.
Yeah, suck it.
Yeah, I know that's your favorite.
Let me lick that.
You like that? I want you to butt-fuck me.
We're supposed to turn off the tap when it's non-pertinent.
Fuck, no, this is too good.
Fuck me.
Daddy, yeah.
There's no way I'm transcribing this stuff.
Touch yourself.
Yeah.
My pussy is so wet right now.
Phone sex? Shit was hilarious.
You're supposed to shut down after You're gonna to look like a glazed donut, you know that? Is that right? I'm gonna get there and fuck you in all three holes.
So, you're gonna come past here? - Tomorrow, yeah.
But I need to go past Argyle Street tonight.
Check in with Wallace.
Wallace? He's off the hook since we helped the tower crew get that stickup boy.
I'm telling you, Wallace is bugging.
Don't hardly even come out of that room no more.
Why he be like that? - I think he might be getting high.
Wallace? - Boy scaring me with his shit.
All right, you holler at me later.
That'll work.
Pertinent now, right? If you can explain why we're still on the line after 10 minutes jerking off.
You got to justify that.
Maybe three holes was the code for three stash houses.
Omar.
Omar coming.
Did you hear me? I said Omar coming.
Let's get out of here.
I said, Omar coming through.
Somebody in trouble now.
Come on, let's go.
You all need to open this door, man, before I huff and puff.
Come on, now, by the hairs of your chinny-chin-chin.
Omar, you best roll out, we up in here with a MAC-10.
I thinks not, Terrell, I thinks not.
You all might need to think this through and stop wasting my time.
Because Omar can come back tomorrow.
And the next day.
And the next day.
And I will put a bullet in all you all behind, what happen right now, you heard? Fair enough.
Here you go, keep it.
How do you wanna play it? Hard and tight, like she's got no choice.
Shardene Ennis.
Miss, we need to talk.
About what? - It's a downtown talk.
This way.
Come on.
Give me a two and two.
What's up? - What you got? Family affair, two-for-one, you up? - No.
Not me.
All right.
How you figure these little pebbles get up on top of the roof? Where's everybody at? Maybe the whole thing is over and no one bothered to tell us.
Maybe we won.
Something ain't right.
Come on, let's take a ride.
I like these.
The toy furniture is great.
Doll house miniatures.
It's a hobby.
My sister had a dollhouse when we were young, but nothing as nice as these.
Can I? Sure, babe.
That's a walnut marble-top vanity.
Renaissance revival, late 19th century.
Do you have a house for them? No, I just make them and sell them.
That seems kind of sad.
You should have a house for them.
We can use the Lieutenant's office.
No.
I ain't asked for nothing.
What's up, Tasha? You got too pretty, girl.
Go inside, Tash.
I'm thinking about getting clean.
Again.
I was thinking, you know, I ain't got no other place to go, maybe That's wrong, right? That ain't right, right? Sorry.
I'm sorry.
Wait.
Back door only.
There's an old sofa in the basement and I'll throw you down some blankets.
You try to come up those stairs, and I'm gonna call the police on you.
I swear I will.
West fucking Baltimore is on vacation.
No crews slinging in the low-rises, the towers.
What the fuck? - Who's playing who? - West against East.
Baltimore? - The projects, man.
The bragging rights to the projects.
The projects got a ball team? How long you been working at Orlando's? - Four, five months.
You like it? - Pays the rent.
You must see a lot there, I imagine.
What do you mean? There's a lot of players there.
A lot of game being played.
I know nothing about that, I just work for tips.
For tips? - Tips, drinks.
You know, I'm just a b-girl.
I don't mess with nothing beyond that.
Some of the girls in there, they're into drugs and whatnot.
And some of them turn tricks in the rooms upstairs but I mostly just stay at the bar.
Miss Ennis, it's rare when we ask somebody to come on downtown with us and we don't have a charge on them.
We don't tell them what we're gonna talk about.
And they come along without complaining.
That hardly ever happens.
Rarely, if ever.
I figure you got your reasons.
The crew that runs Orlando's they've dropped about a dozen bodies over the last year.
And they're running the drugs in every housing project west of the Martin Luther King.
I don't know anything about that.
I just work for tips.
But now you do know, because we're telling you.
You know a girl named Keisha Michaels? - She dances with me.
How's she doing? All right, I guess.
Will you excuse us a moment? - So, what do you think? - I think she's a sweetheart.
I think if we push her hard, she'll tumble.
You want to show her the pictures? I want to do better than that.
Come on, man, play defense.
Let's go! - "D" up, B.
Who is he? - That's Marcus Rivera, right there, man.
He out of Lake Clifton.
That nigger played in Italy and shit.
Slim.
What's up, man? You got to go all the way to Europe to get you a ringer? No, he home now.
But I see you pulling boys out the junior colleges.
He from Eastside, went to Dunbar.
What's up, playboy? How come you wearing that suit? It's 85 fucking degrees out here and you trying to be like Pat Riley.
Look the part, be the part, motherfucker.
You walking around with a fake fucking clipboard.
You can't even read a playbook.
Be for real.
Bunch of bitches.
Let's go.
That was nice.
That boy was talking to God, right? Ain't you all on the clock? - Ain't you? - We on break.
Then we on a break, too.
What's up with this game? Just something we do every year, you know? Eastside versus Westside niggers.
Loser got to throw a big-ass party at Druid Hill next weekend.
Who's favored? - Eastside won the last two years.
My boys.
Found nude Monday morning, in a Dumpster off Reisterstown road, above Northern.
Toxicology is positive for heroin and cocaine.
In a Dumpster? - Rolled up in a rug.
She overdosed and whoever was with her didn't do shit but roll her up and throw her away.
Because that's how they do.
Positive for semen in vaginal, anal and oral cavities.
Three different blood types, all secretors.
They fucked her and threw her away.
The only reason we knew who she was, or what she was about or what she might mean to someone like you is because we've been keeping an eye on the people who run Orlando's for some time now.
We got ways of knowing what they're saying what they're thinking.
You know what they said about this one? That the stupid bitch didn't know how good the snort was at Little Man's party.
That it was her own fault.
That's how they do it.
They use people, and when they throw them away they find a way to say it ain't on them.
Lying motherfucker.
He said they took her to a hospital.
Now, get back on "D.
" Check out Avon.
He's freaking.
Shit, man, we got to win this one.
I think Avon's here.
Where? - Like I know what he looks like? He's a black guy rooting for Westside.
We might have a visual on Avon.
Street ball game up at Cloverdale.
Where's Greggs and Freamon? - Pressing the stripper they picked up.
You and Carver stay on the radio.
We should follow him.
Why? He ain't gonna touch drugs or money anywhere you can see him, Lieutenant.
In Narcotics we follow guys.
We do it well, we make cases on it.
Mount up.
We been on this guy three months.
Don't you even want to get a look at him? I wouldn't know Avon Barksdale if I fell over him in the street.
The thing is, I don't need to.
We get him by voice alone or we don't get him.
Yeah, baby! Half-time.
You got yourself a fine ringer.
It's not your year, you know what I'm talking about? - It look that way, but you never know.
I know, man, we up 12.
Yeah, you is, but I got a proposition for you.
Okay.
Double down? Let's give this wager a clean six figures.
You serious? I don't give a fuck.
It's your money.
You can waste it if you want, you know what I'm talking about? - Anyone got him? -64-Charlie to central K.
You have him? Lieutenant, I don't even know what I'm looking for.
Got him marked.
On the sideline, red shirt, white visor.
I think he's coaching or something.
Who this fucking midget? Get that midget out of here, B.
Why you holler at me? - Man, we getting down to it.
I get to you when I get to you.
That's it, we're on the stash.
We are? How can you put that down when Sydnor wasn't on the roof? Yes, he was.
No, he's not, he's with Daniels.
No, he isn't.
Get the fuck out of here.
Ref, what the fuck? What the fuck? Ref, what the fuck? The boy was fouled.
Clear, straight up! How you going to not call that? If you want, I can put time back on the clock and replay it.
You talking about a do-over? Talking about a fucking do-over? That's not how the game is played! You can't do that! Believe this shit? Nigger talking about doing it again.
I don't want any trouble, okay? - Ain't going to be no trouble over no ball.
Man, you supposed to be the ref, right? Why don't you stand up for your fucking self? You pussy.
You can't let any old motherfucking nigger get in your face, you understand? Now, walk away.
Turn around and walk the fuck away.
Ignorant motherfucker.
We cool? - Yeah, we cool, baby.
You tell your people to come to the park, Saturday at noon.
Of course you come on the Westside again, without a ball I'm gonna light your ass up.
D'Angelo? - You know him? At this point, it feels like I do.
We sort of moved in together.
He seemed like he was different.
I have to quit the club.
Yes, you do.
But not just yet.
We need your help.
Which is why we came to you.
I don't know what else- - Keisha was not the first.
Unless somebody steps up a little bit, she's not going to be the last neither.
You like that one? Why don't you keep it? Thank you.
He's getting into a black Ford Excursion.
Copy that.
He's pulling out, north on Collington.
You got the parallel on the north, I got him on the south.
he's going east on Oliver.
He just parked.
East of Oliver.
on Federal, west of Montford.
I'm coming up from the south.
He's just sitting there.
He's doubling back.
Copy.
He's south on Montford.
He jumped the light at Preston and Milton and is south on Milton.
Be advised that he didn't make it to Chase.
He couldn't have gone past us.
Must have went to ground.
All right, hold your positions.
I'll take a look.
He called again, same pay phone.
Same voice? It was the main stash house, it's got to be.
The pattern fits.
Who took the call at the projects? - Who knows? There was no one on the roof.
Sydnor was off with Daniels, chasing Avon in the street.
We had a good day, too.
Kima turned one of the dancers over at Avon's club.
The one who's fucking D'Angelo.
This guy's good.
We threw everything we had at him.
You know what they say, stupid criminals make stupid cops.
I'm proud to be chasing this guy.
We got four front companies so far, buying up all kinds of shit.
A club, an apartment building, a funeral home and a lot of real estate on the west side of downtown by the Howard Street corridor.
Shop fronts and warehouses.
Barksdale's name on it? - Fronts, mostly.
Relatives, some.
Mind if I have a seat? He's had the projects for more than a year and it's a money factory.
We popped Wee-Bey coming out the other day with $22,000.
The boys talking on the wire were saying it wasn't much of a loss.
$22,000? That's just from one morning from the towers and the pit.
Add the avenue corners, you're probably up near $30,000.
Another take for the evening, $60,000.
A day? - That's $25 million a year, conservatively.
You take out 20% for running expenses and spillage and you are still clearing $1 million a month.
So, where's it all go? - He shows no flash.
He's got no house, no car in his name no jewelry, no clothes.
Just front companies and the property.
And political contributions.
$75,000 the last month alone all from his front companies or their listed officers.
And that's just at a quick glance.
I'm just totaling up the legal contributions.
You've got the likes of Damien Price, aide to a state senator driving out $20,000 in cash from the projects whenever he feels it.
I know you don't want to hear this, Lieutenant but the money is real and it's everywhere.
And more than the drugs, it's the money that matters.
I ain't fucked nobody else if that's what you thinking.
All right, I mean, fuck it.
If you want to go, then go! But you could give me a goddamn reason.
What do I look like to you? - What you mean? - What do I look like to you? - You look like a girl, a woman a beautiful woman, you're fine, what? I don't look like trash to you? Baby, this ain't about what you do.
I don't look like something you could roll up in a rug and throw in the trash? Shardene.
Lieutenant, you paged us? We were almost home.
Sit.
Yeah? Checked my count again, yo.
How bad? Not too bad, man.
We got hit about $22,000.
$22,000? That's all? All right.
I got towers two, three, five and six and another one labeled "P" for the pit.
Where's one and four? It's on the wire that we took them for $22,000.
You shitheads turned in $15,000.
Where's the rest? - Lieutenant, we ain't got- - You have till roll call tomorrow to crawl back to whatever rock you hid it under.
It comes back and it goes to ECU.
This doesn't happen.
Not with me.
Not with my unit.
I wouldn't steal and not tell you about it.
This some of Avon's shit.
You got Avon Barksdale chasing your ass all around town and you still find time to take his shit.
It's your shit now.
What I want with that? What anybody want with that, man? - How much you asking? - We free.
Free? I'm saying, I got a little proposition for you.
Proposition is, you get four G-packs for free you give me some better idea on how I can reach Avon.
How to contact him? - You all just had a game, right? - How you get a hold of him to parley? - We talk now and then.
I page his ass.
Okay.
That all you need? - A number? - I make do with it.
And a code for one of his peoples.
What Wee-Bey use, 07? What makes you think I ain't gonna take this off your hands and throw your ass up outta here? Come on, man, Avon goes down, the projects be open market again, right? Let me understand.
Avon loses $100,000 to me on a bet then you bring me some of his shit so that I can put your predatory self on his ass.
Not his day, is it? Fuck.
Fuck it.
Where was it? - The wheel well.
You remember when the bag broke? Think Daniels will believe it? Would you? You didn't believe me.
I'm sorry.
Savino late, man.
I'm ready to make this money-run, get the fuck out here.
You tired? - I'm tired, man, I'm hungry.
Shit, me too.
Want something to eat from the diner? Yeah, you going over there? Get me a cheese steak, man.
You hungry, too? - Yeah, I could do a burger.
All right.
Let me get onions on that, man.
I got you.
You organizing it right? You got my $50s with my $50s, and my $100s with my $100s? All right, ladies, good night.
I see you all tomorrow, on time, you hear? Count this money, baby.
What the fuck? - Who's that? Wee-Bey swinging me an emergency call.
Fuck.
Bey? No.
We got rules, right? Fuck.
They had cheese fries, baby.
I got you some.
Avon, stay down, man.
I got you covered.

This is the second time this week I had to pay for a sitter 'cause he was workin' late.
With all that money he make, you can afford it.
Lord.
What's up, Bubs? Hey.
There you go.
What you got? - I got some starters.
My fault, A.
Should've never left you alone, homie.
No, shit.
Man, you ain't pull up when you did, I'm gone.
Listen, what I want to know is how we fucking come back on this cocksucker? We don't.
Not now.
You feel me? Listen, Stringer, your advice was good advice you know what I'm saying? I wanna let you know that.
What I want you to do now is put the word out there.
I want you to let him know we willing to squash this, if he is.
And then what the fuck if he ain't? No, this nigger live in the town, too.
He gonna listen, if we parley.
And then when he creep out of his hole, and shit.
Boom.
Okay.
Smoke him.
Say no more, got you.
Put that out there, yo.
All right.
About them police, though, they was on your ass after the game? Yeah, man, it was like two cars.
See, if they on you, then they got a name.
If they got a name, then they know you got no license.
But they don't want no traffic charges, you know what I'm saying? They don't want no humble shit.
I think they was trying to see where I might go.
Where the fuck was you gonna take their asses? I was taking them to the barbershop.
I was going to get a haircut.
Get a fade? I know, B, but these motherfuckers are on us.
Fuck.
They always have been on us, we just gotta be careful.
You not been talking on any phones.
And you not been touching any drugs.
And from now on, you are not doing the money runs.
Me and Bey, we gonna take care of that shit until this whole thing cool off.
Let me get that pager.
What's up, you serious? Serious.
I'm gonna get you a New York supply number only.
Any of these motherfucking local cats wanna talk to you, they gotta talk to me.
We gotta build a wall around you, B.
Another month on a fresh phone? They ripped out the pay phones in the low-rises.
Now they're walking a block or two.
How much longer until you bring this case in? The quicker you can the better for everybody.
Yourself included.
Look at this.
Judge Gwynn sends his regrets.
He can't make lunch.
Like I suddenly got the plague.
There's your new phone.
30 days.
A few weeks ago, when Burrell wanted to take down the wire you were the one breaking off on his ass.
Jimmy, there's a lady here.
Rhonda talks more trash than both of us, Your Honor.
I have never been anything other than ladylike, Your Honor.
Detective McNulty is going out of his way to insult an officer of the court.
McNulty, I hold you in contempt.
Who doesn't? What's with him? - You haven't heard? - No.
What's wrong with the picture? - Don't know.
Phelan isn't in it.
What, he's up for election? I thought judges had 15-year terms.
They do, but Phelan was named to finish Halpern's term which only had two years left.
So he has to run on his own in the primary.
What, he's not on the ticket? Why the fuck not? Maybe it's the company he keeps.
Fuck.
No, see, you ain't thinking about how much room the baby gonna need.
Specially when he get to growing 'cause there are things we got to have.
Like a real crib, a play desk and you know, he got to have one of them Little Tikes cars.
I'm not saying your place ain't nice enough 'cause for you, it do just fine, but if we gonna be a family we need at least one more room, if not two.
So you add the bedroom set, a nice bedroom set like the one they got down at that baby store on Howard Street, and that's a room right there.
And I think we might get some better furniture and put your stuff in the other bedroom like it was a den 'cause the sofa you got seen better days I think you know that much.
Dee, where you goin' at? I told you I need money for the new bedroom set.
Dee! - Why you holler at me? - Yo, man, we getting down to it.
I get to you when I get to you.
That's the main stash house.
Say what? The incoming call is the guy who runs the main stash for Barksdale's people.
Who is he? - We don't know.
So, y'all are just guessing he's on the stash, right? No, he's on it.
Lester was checking the logs when he picked up the pattern.
Every time they get down to the ends on a package somebody in the tower hits that pager number.
Then, within a half-hour every fucking time a call comes back to the tower pay phone from that number in Pimlico.
Which is? It's a pay phone at a Mondo Mart in Reisterstown on Cold Spring Lane.
You see it now? When the supply gets low, they page this mope who always calls back from a pay phone way the fuck out in north-west.
Same phone, same pattern.
So y'all think that he's taking the re-up order and that the stash is somewhere near the Mondo Mart, right? - You are on it, Detective Sydnor.
Okay, so what do you do with this? What do we do? We're gonna be sittin' on that phone in Pimlico all day and night waitin' on Mr.
Mondo Mart.
Herc, too.
Herc's out this whole week.
In-service training.
That's too bad.
So, instead of three eight-hour shifts, you two are gonna have to pull 12 hours.
Just fucking kill me now.
Heard from Omar? - Nope.
I'm gonna go try to scare him up.
Where you gonna be? Everyone on the wire keeps talking about how this kid's all tore up about the dead stickup boy.
I'm gonna see for myself.
All right.
You need us, we're on the radio.
Okay.
Hey, what up, man? This first time, I can go four ounces of rock but hey, if the shit is right, then next time I can step that up.
Almost ain't worth it for four.
Just this first go-round.
You do right by me, I'll turn around and come back on it.
Where your money at, man? We good.
So, where the shit at? Ain't nobody been there but you.
Nobody came in my house but you.
Everybody.
Nobody but you.
You're the only person that came in my house.
So, what you got goin' for you? Ain't got nothing left, burnt it away.
Family? Mother dead.
Father, who the fuck know.
Brothers, sisters? A sister, she lets me stay in the basement but she lock the door so I can't go upstairs.
About the best she can do for me.
Got a kid, a son.
Imagine me bringing life into the world.
What's his name? - Keyshawn.
His mother took him up Jersey way, said I wasn't fit to be with the boy.
I didn't disagree.
Well at least you got your health.
Here's to health.
I got the bug.
Had it since '94.
Gave that shit to my old lady.
Worried about passing it on to my baby girl.
No, I was spared that at least.
Damn, how do you carry it? - You ask her forgiveness? - Of course.
What she say? - What she needed to say.
Look, forgiveness from other folks is good but ain't nothing but words coming at you from outside.
You wanna kick this shit, you got to forgive your own self.
Love yourself some, brother.
And then drag your sorry ass to some meetings.
Meetings? - What the fuck you wanna hear? That you're strong enough to do this by yourself? Getting clean's the easy part.
Now comes life.
It's this one here with the orange cord coming out of the back.
They're pirating juice from the other house.
You fucking gotta be kidding me.
Now I'm policing for BGE? They're not there yet, but when this kid here posts, snatch him up.
Park our asses outside this shit-hole and wait for some little project yo to raise up? Mrs.
McNulty raised no fools.
Four Faidley's crabcakes in the bag Faidley's? You all right, McNulty.
I don't care what all them other fucks downtown say about you.
Our friend wants to meet.
Same spot.
Copy that, 15 minutes.
What's the deal with the yo-boy? - What'd he do? - Stumbled into my world.
Five minutes, come on.
I have to go.
Shardene.
I said, I have to go.
I can't have five minutes? - No, not right now.
Fuck! How close did you get? Y'all be chalking that nigger if Wee Bey ain't pop up at the last second like Remember when we last talked? You were gonna lay back, let us work our case.
I said, I'd do what I can.
Still, I thought I might let y'all know Avon's people got in contact talking about they want to end the beef.
They offered me some kind of amnesty.
Amnesty? Look, I chill out on the manhunt and stop hitting them in the head for their product, they gonna call off the bounty.
Take the truce, Omar.
I might, if they ain't trying to play me.
They said they want to parley on it.
Parley? Look, I don't know, man, but right now I need some assistance from y'all.
Yo, son, I go to the ER, and word get back to Avon you know he gonna have his henchmen waiting in the parking lot for me.
Look, I know y'all friendly with a couple of doctors, right? Right? He says he can buy weight.
Says he runs with some decent-size locals.
Like who? - Avon, something Barksdale.
Avon Barksdale? Run it through the DECS and HIDA.
See what comes back.
I'm gonna check around, see if anybody's working these names you gave us.
If you full of shit, pal, I'm gonna know it quick.
But what happens to me while you checking? Eager Street.
City jail, motherfucker.
Blue came home last week.
I ain't seen him since.
Yeah.
I can't believe it.
Damn, Carv, you's triflin'.
Yeah, I admit it, I'm disgusting.
Cheese puffs and fucking Ring-Dings? Yeah.
Yeah.
The big fuck from the high-rise - what's his name? - Little Man.
Yeah, him.
All right.
Yo.
Be ready, we're on it.
Look at this pretty motherfucker.
Too fucked up to drive home, McNulty? Hey, Bunk.
Kid gave us a murder.
More than that, he's put in Stringer Bell.
Yeah? Picks out Wee-Bey, Bird and Stinkum from photo arrays.
Puts them all up at the Greek's the night they grab up Omar's boy, Brandon.
Puts Bell in the truck, too.
Says, "Stringer told me to point out the stickup boy.
" - Jeez, what do you have over him? - Not a fucking thing.
Kid was ready, barely had to push him.
Whose case? - Norris's.
How old? -16.
Lives in a shit-hole vacant over on Argyle.
When I grab him up, I swear he's halfway into a nod.
Using? When they kill the stickup boy the fuckers dump the body in the alley behind where this kid and all the other low-rise hoppers lay their heads.
Can you imagine? All he can think about.
You tell him he's gonna have to testify? Not yet, we'll get there.
Problem is, what do we do with him now? - Yeah.
Big boy picking up.
Okay.
You holler at me, right? - Where you at, man? We on our way down.
First thing tomorrow, man.
Yeah? - It's him, stay on it.
All right.
I didn't do nothing, man, get me outta here.
The 2-2, grounded slowly towards third, and it gets through at the last moment.
Where my phone call at? Suzuki's at the plate, here's the pitch.
Line drive, up the middle, a base hit for Suzuki.
Suzuki's very patient at the plate.
Yeah, man, it's me.
Guess who's up in here.
Pimpin' - ass Orlando, from the club.
Yeah.
Courtside.
So, how long you been slingin'? - Since I was, maybe, 12.
And how long were you with Barksdale's crew in the low-rises? With D'Angelo? Not long.
He came down from the towers at the beginning of the summer.
Before that I worked for Ronnie Mo.
D'Angelo ever talk to you about what happened in the 221 building with Pooh getting shot? How about anything else like that? - Like what? - Killings, murders.
He say anything about a girl getting shot in an apartment up on the Eastside? He- No, Dee, he was good to me.
He all right.
But D'Angelo, he was who you called that night when you saw the stickup boy at the Greek's, right? Yeah, but he didn't go up there.
It was mostly those tower boys.
And Stringer.
You said Stringer was in the truck.
He called you over, asked you to point out the stickup boy.
All of it corroborated by the beeper logs and the pen registers from the project pay phones.
Stinkum's dead.
We've already got Bird for the Gant killing.
This ties them all in.
D'Angelo, too.
Maybe, but since he didn't show at the Greek's he tells the jury he didn't see the murder coming.
It's enough to charge him, anyway.
Parents? Alcoholic mother.
In the wind, no fixed address.
Says he's got a grandmother on the Eastern Shore but he hasn't seen her in years.
How about a hotel room? - On whose dime? No way the Deputy approves the manpower to stash a 16-year-old much less the room service.
McNulty, Line 2.
How about you run this up to front office? See if the state's attorney will kick in.
He's a kid, Cedric.
Even if we clear the money, do you really wanna put a juvenile in a hotel for six months waiting on a trial date? I think you all need to get with Grandma down on the shore.
Now? She's doing this right now? They don't have to set a hearing date or something like that? Christ, yeah, okay.
Yeah.
I fuckin' need a fuckin' lawyer.
What? Still, you can see that they got the security bars and look there.
Cameras that see over the yard out to the street.
And I checked with Verizon, there's no phone service at that address.
That's a telltale right there.
So what? We try to write a warrant for this place, right? Right? - What are you seeing? - No pattern, really.
Except this cluster of old storefronts and warehouses on the west side of downtown.
Around Paca, Utah, Howard Street, mostly.
Storefronts? - Vacants, usually.
Three different holding companies.
Detective Pryzbylewski.
What? You have a gift for the paper trail.
Tomorrow calls for some street work, though.
Are you street ready? You know the Lieutenant has me in-office.
I don't have my gun until the grand jury.
You won't need one.
On the street? No gun? No gun.
Not for this.
Furthermore, Mr.
McNulty, having utilized his sons in an act of police work involving a criminal suspect actually lost track of them in a crowded municipal market.
This is simply unacceptable, Your Honor.
Be that as it may, an emergency ex parte order is an extraordinary request, Mr.
Palmer.
You actually want me to limit visitations to afternoons only, and you want Mrs.
McNulty present at all visitations? Come on.
It is not a single lapse, Judge.
Mr.
McNulty has time and again failed to properly care for the children when they're in his custody.
I have a list of recent events, Your Honor, that justify an order.
Ms.
Pearlman, you have a response you'd like to offer up here? Nope.
Nothing? If this were possession with intent, I'd be a prosecutor with a plan.
But a domestic order hearing? Your Honor, I'm officially clueless.
In fact, as an employee of the state, I should not actually be here.
All right, listen up, people before you have me make a ruling on an emergency petition everybody here just needs to take a deep breath.
Literally, come on.
Now, then, is Mr.
McNulty capable of having a civil conversation with Mrs.
McNulty? Yes, Your Honor.
And is Mrs.
McNulty equally capable of having a conversation with Mr.
McNulty? - Yes.
Good, then I'm going to lunch.
Let's see when I return if we can't busy this court with something just a little more engaging than the problems of the McNultys.
Look, the charge is on me.
I understand that, I'll carry that.
But the least our people can do is throw down a little something to pay the bondsman.
That's the deed of transfer for the club.
The other thing is a license transfer application for the liquor board.
They're both backdated and notarized for last week.
What? A front has to be clean.
And right now, you ain't that.
Sign.
I want my bail paid.
You send me a bondsman, I'll sign.
Is that what you want me to tell him? That I asked you to sign and you wouldn't? You wanted to be in the game, right? Now you're in the game.
Unbelievable.
You show up with her? Elena, you went for an emergency ex parte.
I grabbed whatever lawyer was standing around.
She was standing? Ask her if she wants the pictures back.
Let's see, I've got her at the restaurant with you pulling out her chair.
I've got her at the motel parking lot with you opening the car door for her because you're such a fucking gentleman now.
I can't believe you hired Buckman.
Son of a bitch never made a case that counted.
He caught your cheating ass.
Elena, why are we here? Because you can't have Sean and Michael around criminals.
You can't lose them in a Baltimore market.
That's why.
He wasn't a criminal.
I know the guy.
It was a game we were playing.
It was daylight on a crowded street.
They could've been following Al Capone.
It would've been fine.
Look, Elena, these are my sons.
I love them.
Do you hear, I love them.
I'm not gonna let them get hurt.
I love you, too.
Still do.
Does she know about the detective and the pictures? No, why would I tell her about that? And are the two of you still No.
Yes.
A little.
Come on, let's make nice for the judge.
Okay.
We know we have a month more to go and we're not gonna let up.
We are going to raise more, we are going to spend more and on Election Day, we are going to be out there pushing the vote in every precinct.
You ready? Come on, we'll get dinner first.
Ain't so hungry.
Come on.
How much were you using? I'm asking if you're gonna be sick in my car.
A cap now and then.
You just snorting? You'll be all right in a day or two.
Come on.
This nigger coming or what, man? Said he would, if I guaranteed a parley.
And I'm here on it.
Of course, he said you would be paying my fee rather than his own self.
Your fee? I'm doing like one of them marriage counselors.
Charge by the hour to tell some fool he need to bring some flowers home.
Then charge another hour telling the bitch she ought to suck some cock every little once and a while.
To keep a marriage strong like that.
Speaking of cocksuckers.
Don't believe we met.
Proposition Joe.
You ever steal from me, I kill your whole family.
All right.
You all both here on my guarantee, so respect that shit and say what you feel.
I'm up out of here.
I got a man who say he gonna give you your life back.
Who, Barksdale? My man say, "Tell that motherfucker that "if he can find a way not to dip in our pockets "we're gonna call this shit even.
" You all aced Bailey, and what you did to my boy? So, y'all think after what you did to Brandon we supposed to find some even on this? I don't know shit about shit, all right? I'm just the messenger.
Whatever, man.
You know there's dead on both sides, right? And there's gonna be a whole lot more if this beef keep up.
But the truth be told, there be more soldiers on one half than the other.
You know what I'm saying? Look here, son, you tell Barksdale that he's been paid back for what he did to my peoples.
But as for his product, a man's got to earn a living, you know? I don't know nobody called Barksdale, B.
The man I'm talking about can't have his shit taken like that.
That won't do.
All right, tell him to throw me some cash then, and we'll see About $5,000 or $10,000.
You know what I mean, for my retirement, homes.
$5,000 ifyou can keep quiet about it.
Send my money through Joe, man.
You go through Joe, you're not gonna see $2,000 of that.
Why don't you tell my man where you at- - No.
We gonna figure something else out, you hear? I'll be in touch, homes.
How careful is Stringer Bell? "I don't know no one named Barksdale.
" Shit.
Still, we got him tied to the Brandon killing.
That can be enough for one day's work.
Did what I could for y'all.
You sure, right? Yeah, I spent a summer here when I was nine.
When was the last time they saw you? When I was nine.
What's that? - What? That noise.
It's crickets.
Cricket.
Crickets.
He try to go in my pockets again? - This nigger is talking about $5,000, B.
Shit.
What's up, baby? Antwon said to bring these up.
You want anything else? No, we cool.
I'm saying though, how we supposed to pay that? He talking about going through Joe, but I'm like, fuck Joe.
Thank you, you know what I mean? You look good and your services are appreciated.
Keep them tips, I hope you making them, baby.
Make the motherfucker come down to the towers to get the rest of his money, know what I'm saying? If he's stupid enough to come to the towers, he gonna get got.
It's a wrap.
How we supposed to pay that? All right.
Y'all think you can hang, but, look.
No, you see, I went to journalism school.
All right? Northwestern.
So you all can't stay with me on this Girl, you talking like you some crusty old reporter.
Excuse me? - Bitch, you work at a TV station.
It's the same thing, all right? Look, come on, stop talking.
Here we go.
Bring it.
Come on, Kima.
I gotta work tomorrow.
Candy ass.
That's all I have to say.
Okay, you see? - I'm with you.
All right.
Look at Tanya.
And she run a damn art gallery.
You see, police in this town ain't about shit.
Guess not.
Thank you.
Can't hold a liquor.
Can't hold a donut.
And if you ask me, I guess we ain't good in bed, either.
Don't go there, Officer.
Don't go there.
Kima, how did you know you wanted to be a cop? I mean, how did you choose that? When you were little, did you think about it at all, or Come on, Kima.
I remember when I was in the Northeast, still field-training as a cadet.
I didn't know if I was gonna stick with it or not.
And then we got this one call.
We chased this purse-snatcher up into these apartments.
I got separated from my FTO.
Shit, I ain't even no police yet.
You know, I'm just a trainee.
And I'm alone.
Anyway, I mean, I don't know how, but I find the guy.
So I catch him and I hold on to him and I manage to get to my radio.
We in the middle of this parking lot and we're rolling around and this motherfucker's steady kicking my ass trying to get away.
I look over and I see these black patents and these uniform blue pants.
I look up and it's Charlie Smoot Charlie fucking Smoot.
You know, this guy's a legend.
He looks down at me and he smiles, you know real quiet-like.
And he drops his cuffs.
He says, "Here you go, rook.
" That's all he says.
"Here you go, rook.
" And then he dropped the bracelets and walked away.
I mean, I know you don't like it.
But shit, I was proud.
God damn.
Lester says we ain't gonna write a warrant on this place.
How do we not with all this PC? - We're on the main stash, right? Why would we kick the door in when all we have to do is park a van down the street follow the entire Westside drug supply in and out of the place? We're gonna start picking up pieces of Barksdale's world we never even knew about.
Been hell looking for you people.
What the hell's the name of this unit anyway? Shit, Kima in the house.
What's up, Wig? State police, CID, out of Pikesville.
Name of Troy Wiggins, but pay no attention to the man because he about 90-95% pure bullshit.
Kima, she just talk like that because I had her when she was good.
Shit, you the ugly-ass motherfucker turned me the other way.
Shit, all right.
Here's the thing, boys and girls.
I'm doing a reverse buy-down in Arundel, right? And I get this Westside asshole nibbling on four ounces, right? - A whole four ounces? - I know, he ain't much, but I get him in the boat and he starts flopping around saying he can buy weight from some motherfucker, name of Barksdale.
I never heard of no Barksdale.
But I put the name into DECS.
And the computer has Avon Barksdale entered as an active Baltimore city target.
So I go down to City Narcotics, and Dawson, he sends me down here to see y'all.
So what's the name of your fish? Wendell O.
, as in oh-shit-I-tried-to-buy from-a-state-police Blocker.
That wouldn't be Wendell "Orlando" Blocker, would it? Yeah.
You on it.
Orlando.
They keep that back room locked.
And even if I do get back there on an errand, then they kind of shut down.
They get real quiet.
You said you heard one say something about making someone come into the towers.
Yeah.
Which one was talking? He was tall, I think.
All right, but who else was there? I don't really see that well without my glasses.
Where are your glasses? You can't see faces without those? You don't wear those while you're working, do you, darlin'? Would you? I gotta live off drinks and tips.
No way.
Why not? Because a player wouldn't be the name on the liquor license.
He'd have a connect for Barksdale's coke.
He wouldn't walk into state troopers.
He got a charge and now he's talking out his ass.
You're never gonna get Avon or Stringer in the same room as the dope.
We make this case on their voices alone.
So maybe he can't buy from Barksdale.
Maybe he can only buy from Savino or Wee-Bey.
Fuck him, then.
We already got Wee-Bey tied to a murder, and Savino's the runt of the litter.
We can take what Orlando gives us about the club.
The money laundering, maybe, or the girls.
For that kind of cooperation, I'll drop a few years and call it fair.
Daniels in here? - Yeah.
Call from Deputy Commissioner for you.
You want it in here? No.
He doesn't miss much.
I need some help here.
Come on, Bubs.
You got me coming across town in the middle of a fucked-up workday just so you can hold $10, that shit ain't right.
Hold on, I don't need $10, okay? I don't know.
I need a place of my own.
All right? Some bed, some sheets, some clothes.
I definitely need some new clothes.
How long you been clean? Three days.
You serious about it? Who knows? What the fuck am I gonna do with a clean informant? Did you think about that? All right, I'm on it with you.
Yeah? - Yeah.
What the fuck, give me some love.
Okay, I mean, I think I can get, you know, a mattress, my own place everything for like a couple hundred dollars.
All right.
We'll talk.
I gotta be somewhere tonight, so hit me on my page tomorrow.
Tomorrow? I got you.
The cooperator says he can buy weight.
Not from Barksdale or Bell.
How can you be sure? How much dope or coke do you think gets Avon Barksdale into the room? A kilo? 2 kilos? 20 kilos? We are not going to buy our way up the ladder here.
These people do not touch the drugs.
They don't go near the drugs.
The wire is what gives us Barksdale.
It gives us the whole crew.
Day by day, piece by piece.
Buy-bust, Lieutenant.
It's what I asked you for months ago.
It's what we do successfully time and again to make these cases.
Why New York? Must be something happening out there.
Too big a town, you know what I mean? - You don't believe in the truce? - That's why I asked for that money.
If he had said, "We ain't paying, just be happy to live" I'd have been like, they keeping it real.
But he say, come on down for $5,000.
I'm, like, man, please.
Look here, homes, I ain't asked for much, but I'm a little light on traveling money.
I'm saying, I could go around the block and get myself paid, but I'm thinking.
You keep in touch with my pager.
We're gonna need you for the Gant trial.
Go easy, Omar.
Stay free.
You be picking me up outside the cut-rate on Lex and Fulton.
I be up there after 10.
:00, right? That'll work.
Listen up, people.
We've got $30,000 in buy money, courtesy of our friends over at DEA.
But the thing is, they can't have that money walking on them.
Definitely not.
So Kima will be in the car for the buy, fronting as our Cl's girl.
Looking the part, too.
Now, where's your weapon gonna be? He might pat me, so it has to stash in the car.
I figure when Savino gets in the car at the cut-rate I'll be going in back.
It'll be up under the rear seat.
And we probably can't be close enough for an eyeball on this but the car will be a live wire.
And Kima will be throwing us I only want to remind Mr.
Blocker here that his plea agreement is contingent on cooperation.
And a buy-bust on Savino Bratton is less cooperative than a buy-bust from someone higher up on the food chain.
If you can get Savino talking about Avon or Stringer that's better for us and better for you.
They already know that he got jacked on a reverse buy, right? - Why wouldn't they assume he's snitching? - I need money for a lawyer, right? That's the story.
He got popped and now he needs to get right back into it to pay the bondsman and the lawyer.
All right.
Let's make this work.
Careful.
That's my career you're holding there.
You got a unit? - Parked in the mezzanine.
Give me the keys, man.
No, I'm driving, motherfucker.
Come on, man.
Death row here.
Ain't up.
Death row.
My girl.
Half the money's hers.
Baby, since we going down North Avenue stop by the carry-out so I can pick me up some cigarettes.
They're going up North, stay loose.
Shit.
It's too loud.
Does any unit have the eyeball? Negative, 11-35.
Come on, Greggs, tell us where the fuck you are.
Pull in there.
What? - Pull in there.
Don't fuck with this count.
I'll be right back with your shit.
Where are we? That sign said Longwood, but I could swear this was Warwick.
Hoppers be turning the sign poles to fuck with you all.
I make it we're on the north side of Warwick, in an alley I don't know, shit.
Half a block west of Longwood, maybe? I hope you all copy that.
Yeah, that puts us about eight blocks away.
I'm pushing in a little closer.
All units be advised.
Warwick near Longwood in the north side alley.
Or near that 20.
This got the right feel for you? You creeping closer? He better not be long, because I don't know where the stash is and if they dragging us all over this part of town- - What's that? - What? Something ain't right.
What? - Shit ain't right.
You snitching motherfucker.
Signal 13, signal 13! Gunshots Gunshots.
Go city-wide.
11-35.
Signal 13.
Warwick near Longwood, officer down.
Two males, black hoodie, both of them, one is- Signal 13, Warwick, near Longwood, in the alleys.
Check the alleys Northside, 2800 block.
Nothing.
We got an officer down, she's a number one, female undercover.
Unit 833, bearing east on is responding.
Does anyone have a visual? - Foxtrot.
What are we looking for? We can't find the officer down.
We need Foxtrot looking for a green Lincoln Town Car with a brown vinyl roof, parked in those alleys.
Foxtrot en route, 3-1-4.
Visual, rear even-side of Warwick and Longwood.
Signal 13, signal 13.
Officer down.
SUV, west on Warwick, make the next right.
Be advised, no movement at scene.
In here.
Call for a medic.
We got an officer down, we need a medic.
Where the fuck is the medic? Signal 13, we got an officer down.
Do we have a description? Any unit on scene? Do you have a description of the suspect? That's a 10-47.

How many shells you got? Come on, come on! Another bag here.
Christ.
Sergeant? Yeah? Who are the primaries? Cole and Norris.
Cole's here and Norris is at the hospital.
What do you need? Room to work.
I keep ordering people off the scene and between Narcotics, DEA and the two districts we keep collecting more and more bodies around here.
Nobody move! I said, nobody fucking move! If you haven't been assigned a specific task by a homicide detective you need to step away from this crime scene.
Is there anybody doesn't understand a direct order? If you have not specifically been instructed otherwise then remove your useless interfering asses from the area.
Now! Slow this thing down to a crawl.
Give these bastards no chance to fuck up in a meaningful way.
Okay.
Wedged all the way to the back.
She couldn't get to it.
She taped it up front but as soon as she put any weight on these worn-ass car seats they pulled the tape off.
Gun slid back behind the mesh as they drove, probably.
Christ.
Where was her support? There were two follow cars several blocks distant.
She got turned around in the alleys.
She gave her 20 as the north side of Warwick.
They went there on the shots? The Foxtrot finally found her.
Hey, you got to be moving outta here.
So, we had two units covering the north side and a helicopter up on top.
And no one saw any vehicles in flight.
Bunk.
Terry, Mike, come on.
What the fuck happened? You didn't have an eyeball? On those streets, there's no way you can eyeball it.
She threw out 20s as best she could.
Understood, I'm just asking.
The link we have to this is Savino Bratton.
A minor lieutenant to our target, Barksdale.
I gave your people that at the scene.
We're hitting his last knowns.
The set-up was more than him.
The casings are different calibers, and her Glock was full up.
How bad? - Chest wound, no exit.
Through and through to the throat.
She wasn't stabilized.
They had the pressure pants on her.
Trying to push up the pulse.
They put those pants on you, it ain't good.
You're on Baker when you hear the shots.
Where was the second car? - Warwick, I think.
Okay.
You've got the east well-covered - to the west is the rail bed.
What did Foxtrot see? Nothing moving except our units.
Lieutenant I know just how you feel.
This is the toughest job a police commissioner has.
I don't think I'll ever get used to it.
This is Lieutenant Daniels.
Right, of course.
This entire department stands behind Detective Greggs in every possible way.
I just thought you should know that.
Yes, sir.
Jaybird.
We have a runner.
Yeah, we're gonna need casts of these two imprints.
Put the lab tech on it.
The money's not anyone's primary concern.
I understand that.
I'm not going to be standing giving a shit about the money when you have lost one of your own who might I mean, Jesus, this is awful.
If we can get to this Savino character- - Hey.
Fuck your money.
Jimmy? You hurt? No.
It's hers.
Come on, get up.
Let's go, up with you.
Come on.
Couldn't talk, couldn't breathe.
Nothing.
She went into the ambo that way.
Is she What the fuck did I do? Come on, walk.
What's that? What's our plan, Ray? Bunk and Jay stay with the scene.
Keeley and Crutchfield are at the office typing warrants for Savino.
Who's on the autopsy? - Me, I'm at the morgue.
Norris and Holley stay at shock trauma in case she sits up and talks.
We're laser printing the car, right? 'Course, Worden's on that.
You're in command for the city, right? Major Rawls, Homicide.
Anything you need from my office men, money, whatever, you just ask.
Right.
Cooperator, your girl's down in shock trauma.
Let's get to work.
Fuck you.
Fuck me? We got a wire up.
So? So we got a wire up on some motherfucker that just shot a cop.
If somebody talks, and gets on the wrong phone says the wrong thing about what happened where the fuck do you want to be? Church roof? Yeah, you and me.
Sydnor takes the McCullough Street phone.
Anybody get in contact with Kima's people? Shit.
I'll do that first, then meet you at the church.
Bunk, Mike.
Wonder who that bitch was.
Always some shit, right? - Yeah.
Done? - Done.
All right.
Let's get outta here.
Yeah.
Lab tech to this spot.
Photos and casts.
Can I get 18-12 up here? Yeah.
You're camped here.
Nobody touches this shit, or even comes near it until the tech does his recovery.
Hello.
He stopped running.
Either he got tired or- Or he got into a car.
Right.
-11-34.
Go ahead, 11-34.
I'm in the Backing up to the CSX bed.
I need a lab unit, and a DPW crew with a jackhammer.
A jackhammer? Gonna keep a bit of road, KGA.
Alive.
In the OR.
My people at the scene have heard this.
It's a copy of the original.
Okay.
We brought a machine- - Where the fuck is- - Sir.
Here it is, here.
Yeah, put it there.
Don't fuck with this count.
That's Savino.
I'll be right back with your shit.
Where are we? That sign said Longwood, but I could swear this is Warwick.
Hoppers be turning the sign poles to fuck with you all.
I make it we're on the north side of Warwick, in an alley, I don't know, shit half a block west of Longwood, maybe? I hope you all copy that.
This got the right feel for you? He better not be long, 'cause I don't know where the stash is and if they dragging us all over this part of town- What's that? Jesus.
Something ain't right.
What? This shit ain't right.
Christ.
Signal 13, signal 13.
What the fuck? She can't reach the gun.
What the fuck? - Two males, black hoodies, both of them- Shut it off.
Shut it off.
Dr.
Mells, Line 6.
Listen to me, you fuck.
You did a lot of shit here.
You played a lot of fucking cards and made a lot of people do a lot of fucking things they didn't want to do.
This is true.
We both know this is true.
Dr.
Ralston, please call cardiology.
You, McNulty, are a gaping asshole.
We both know this.
Fuck if everybody in CID doesn't know it.
But fuck if I'm gonna stand here and say you did a single fucking thing to get a police shot.
You did not do this, you fucking hear me? This is not on you.
No, it isn't, asshole.
Believe it or not, everything isn't about you.
And the motherfucker saying this he hates your guts, McNulty.
So you know if it was on you I'd be the son of a bitch to say so.
Shit went bad.
She took two for the company.
That's the only lesson here.
Police! Police, let me see your hands.
Get on the ground! - Down on the ground! Search warrant, get on the ground.
Police, get down.
Let's see your hands.
He ain't here! - Who ain't here? - Zach, he ain't here! - Zach? No, honey, we're looking for Savino.
Savino? No, he's my baby.
Yeah, your baby shot a cop.
They're kicking in the doors, looking for Savino.
What? What up with that, man? - Some shit about he killed a cop.
Who, Savino? Savino ain't shot no cop.
They kicking in the doors, acting like he did it.
Shit.
I'm telling you, man.
They're talking about it anyway.
Ripples in the pond.
Talking ain't knowing, is it? Skin this cat another way.
Two pages to Stringer tonight, right? Only this one after the shooting.
Who's 07? And what phone is he asking for Stringer to call him back? - Shit went good, but- - Hold on.
Officer was shot around The officer may have been undercover.
All right, talk.
Like I said, it went good except there was this bitch curled up in the back seat.
Surprised the shit out of us.
Didn't even see her until the shit popped off.
I mean if it was up to me, I'd have let the girl walk.
She didn't look like the talking type.
But Little Man seen her, bugged out, and let a couple go.
Savino didn't tip y'all off to her? - Wasn't no time for that.
He get up out the car, we see him go up the block like we said, right? After that, he out of sight and we bring it home like we planned, baby.
Shorty was a cop.
And she ain't dead.
Where'd you all put the guns? She wasn't no cop, man.
She look like one of Orlando's hos.
Bey, where the fuck are the guns? - A storm drain off of Park Heights, man.
What the fuck is wrong with Little Man? I mean, this motherfucker bugged out one time.
He gonna bug out again, when he find out shorty's a fucking cop? I mean, come on, man.
Savino got a story that he can keep to and he know it but Little Man, he always been fucking weak like that.
Little Man gotta go.
You hear me? This shit gonna get real heavy.
You understand me? We gotta fall back.
I wanna see how it go with this Savino bullshit see how they go past that.
But if the shit don't hold or if this motherfucking cop wake up and start talking shit then you gotta go sky up.
Where you got your peoples at? New York.
Jersey, Cleveland.
All right.
So, Philly.
DC.
You know what I'm saying? No profile, no connections, no noise.
You feel me, right? All right.
We gotta be careful.
Jesus.
Look, I'm sorry.
It's all right, you just scared me.
I work with Kima.
Kima, she Kima's at work.
What is she? Dust the receiver, the coin return, and the metal top.
The can, too.
Dr.
Jones to the nurses' station, please.
We can't really know for sure.
Lieutenant.
I'm sitting over there with Kima's girl and- Maybe somebody from the department or the city maybe might want to say something.
Who's here from the family? A daughter, you say? A daughter? Officer Greggs has a girl? A roommate.
The family's in Richmond, driving up first thing today but the roommate's already here.
I'll do it myself.
No problem.
If we lose her, he can always pose for the funeral.
Still need the right door for Savino.
His last knowns, his girlfriend, his mama, all empty holes.
Tracers picked up a of couple hairs on one of the hoodies.
That's something.
So, either these guys are neighborhood yos who lucked into $30,000 on a street stickup, or Or they're pros who set up in an alley on one side of the tracks then slip over to the other side where they park their ride.
What about the post? Cause and manner of death on Mr.
Blocker is homicide to wit, close-range GSWs to the shoulder, chest and left arm.
Nine millimeter, six left twist, suitable for comparison.
We pulled something else from the back seat of the car, right? Yeah,.
380.
Semi-jacketed.
Casings were different, too.
So, we confirmed the two shooters.
Print hit.
Wynton "Little Man" Rice, enforcer in the 221 a definite connect to Barksdale's world.
Print hit? Print hit from what? Soda can.
Dropped at the pay phone at Park Heights and Belvedere.
Still had a little fizz in it when I got there.
What is this pay phone at Park Heights and Belvedere? It's from which some motherfucker paged Stringer Bell I dusted the phone, too, but it was smudged.
So we got a Barksdale pro in the northwest ringing up the boss minutes after the deed.
So much for the amateur-hour theory.
Good pull.
You are? Freamon.
Lester Freamon.
Where you working? Pawn shop unit.
I mean, how you gonna shoot a police? Ain't no percentage in that, know what I'm saying? For real.
Someone around here do that shit every narco in the world be down here busting heads.
I guess them Park Heights niggers just ain't got no fucking common sense.
A lotta heart, just no sense.
Poot.
Wallace on the phone.
Yeah? - Wallace? Nigger ring me up twice a day whether he got shit to say or not.
Homesick motherfucker making me bug.
Where's he at? At the shore with his grandma, down there Surfing or some bullshit.
Or something.
Dr.
Zellesky, you have a call on Line 5.
You just use that phone? Yeah, a little earlier.
You might wanna go to Mosher Street.
Just now, you used it? Yeah.
A man downtown needs to talk to you.
Man downtown? Make some sense for this man, please.
All right? - I ain't never been so clean in my life.
I'm just doing my job.
Okay.
What up, Mr.
Beachfront Property? No, fool, I told you, I'm bayside.
My grandmother on the bayside.
Still, man, you on vacation and not bringing me with you.
How you get all the way down there? I took a bus.
Shit, tell me how to go, and I grab a 'hound, too.
Come down there and hang with your ass.
No, man, it ain't like that.
The air down here all sticky.
Worse than Baltimore.
And these crickets, louder than a motherfucker.
I can't get no sleep.
I don't think I'm cut out to be no country-ass nigger, man.
Please deposit two dollars for an additional two minutes.
Shit, I gotta go.
You can take a nigger out the Westside.
But you can't take- What's your name? Look, I didn't do shit here, okay? I asked you your name.
No, this shit ain't right.
Who'd you try to page, shit bird? Why the fuck do you care, okay? I mean You have exactly three more seconds to explain yourself to me, asshole.
One shooter definitely opened the passenger door so any latent prints from that side of the car - Why'd you page her, shit bird? - Get off me.
You think this is a fucking game? I wanna talk to Detective Greggs.
You can't, motherfucker.
Then McNulty then.
This shit ain't right, sir.
Savino.
Mope ain't around.
One of them low-rise hoppers on Tower Phone 2.
Okay.
Maybe he forgot the number.
The fuck was that? You don't know? We just caught a re-up off the tower stash.
Fourth floor, south side, second unit down.
Put that away.
Put that away and work the case.
Can I ask you something? How much of this case would you give up to get her back? That's not the point.
How much? All of it.
But it doesn't work that way.
You can't give it back.
I'm sitting with a hospital progress report that shows no fucking progress.
She's not conscious, she's intubated.
She's had a trach and a lung collapse and if she's got a shred of luck the shot she took to the neck didn't catch any spine.
It wasn't worth it.
Homicide for McNulty on Line 2.
Do your job.
Yeah? So how you doing with it? I'll live.
Yeah? Listen, Jimmy.
We had a little dust-up over here.
Holley might have beat one of your girl's Cls on spec.
What is he, a short guy? Mumbles a lot? Yeah, that's him.
You might wanna roll past and squelch this shit before it gets outta hand.
Yeah.
It ain't worth it, man.
It ain't worth it at 10 times the price.
A fucking cop, man.
A cop! How stupid is this motherfucker? If you see a bitch in the car, change it up.
We can go to Orlando another fucking day.
Savino say he was trying to signal, but he in the dark he don't know where Bey's coming from.
Nothing breaking our way.
We gotta burn this shit.
This is cop money.
It's probably marked somehow.
The guns are in the sewer, Bey's a rock, so that's cool.
But it's the bitch cop.
If she starts talking, she gonna put Little Man and Bey in there.
What up with Little Man? - He's scared.
He shot a cop.
Fuck.
But I put Bey on that.
What about Savino? Savino, he gotta eat the charge.
But he knew that.
So if he keep his story tight, he gonna be all right.
We knew Orlando was a snitching motherfucker, man.
Fuck him, but this is cash.
He got us caught up.
I know, man.
That's my fault, man.
Bey and Savino came to me with the idea that if they take Orlando, they can take the cash, too.
I was like, all right, you all get your payday- How the fuck is Orlando gonna front this type of cash? What it say? I know.
I know, I fucked up.
All right, take this trash outside, fucking burn it.
Tell Wee-Bey to clean up the mess before he jet.
He was throwing 911 messages to her pager.
I asked him why.
He raised up.
Shit got outta hand.
Does he know? McNulty, man.
What they doing over there, man? He just started beating on me.
Last night, she got shot.
Where the fuck were you at? - Where were you? - I was there.
Bunk.
Holley is investigating.
We got no good latents on the passenger side door.
and he sees her pager coming up 911.
What about the dash? You gotta help me! Call the lab.
What can I do? For one thing you can roll around the projects and see who's missing.
Who ain't around.
You okay with that? Yeah, I just I been keeping it kinda close, you know? Ain't been around the projects much lately.
You know what I'm saying? You beefing with someone down there? No, I'm not beefing with Eyes open, Bubbs.
For Kima.
Hang loose, I'll get you a ride.
Where are we with Savino? - Still MIA.
Enough of this bullshit.
If he calls me for anything, I'll tell him to turn himself in.
I'm going to do that.
Not good enough.
Excuse me? We need him now.
No, thanks.
Perhaps as an officer of the court Ronnie here is being polite.
She's a member of your twisted little tribe.
She's putting it into your twisted little language.
Me? I wouldn't wipe my ass with a Baltimore lawyer.
No offense.
None taken.
I mean, I'm willing to let you little ratfuckers suborn perjury blow smoke up a judge's ass and jury-tamper your balls off without losing the slightest bit of my sunny disposition.
Fuck me if I don't let you structure your cash into briefcase fees, either.
That's between you and the IRS.
Neither one of you is anyone's friend, right? What Jimmy is trying to say is- No, what Jimmy is saying is if you want my nose closed to your shit you have to throw me something when I need it.
And right now I need Savino Bratton in bracelets.
I don't know where he is.
You repped him the last four felonies.
I guess you can get word to him if you want to.
A police may die, Morrie, and Savino was there.
He comes in this afternoon and he takes the drug charge at least.
Or what? Or we send tactical teams into his momma's house every night until there's no house left to worry about.
You get a target letter from the state's attorney's office followed by subpoenas for every bank account in your fucking name.
And let's see if all those cash deposits match the reported income.
I'm hearing this from him and I understand that he's distraught.
I understand that.
Am I hearing this from the state's attorney's office as well? You are.
I'll see what I can do.
Fuck you, Jimmy! - You didn't tell me that was coming.
He'll bring him in.
He will if he can, that's not the point.
What's the point? The point is that Morrie Levy is a past officer of the Monumental Bar Association and unless I want to spend my whole life as a fucking ASA I can't spend my afternoons pissing on people who matter.
Another career in the balance.
Fuck you.
No, fuck you.
If only half of you in the state's attorney's office didn't want to be judges didn't want to be partners in a downtown law firm if you had the balls to follow through, you know what would happen? A guy like that would be indicted, tried and convicted.
The rest of them would back up so we could push a clean case through your courthouse.
But no, everybody stays friends.
Everybody gets paid.
And everybody's got a fucking future.
You'll just use anyone, won't you? I've been searching the logs for pager hits that used an 07 code, right? It comes up now and then on D'Angelo's pager.
Stringer's, too, but less often.
Most of the time, there's nothing to place the guy but check it.
And this is on Stringer's page? - It comes back to the pay phone in the emergency room at Maryland General Hospital.
Let me guess.
The date of this page is the same day that Stinkum got killed.
And Wee-Bey got shot in the leg.
That was the talk on the wire, anyway.
If you go to Maryland General and pull the ER records for that morning you're gonna find Wee-Bey in the pile.
It's gotta be.
And we have Wee-Bey and Little Man at the pay phone at Park Heights throwing a page to Stringer.
We're all over town for this piece-of-shit Savino.
With ties to the Barksdale organization? - Yes, sir.
What else? The case is progressing.
We're gleaning possible shooters from the wiretap.
I asked for the controlled buy.
I put one of our people in harm's way.
So right now I want to make sure that we are doing everything.
We are, sir, we're on it.
Good.
The commissioner wants raids citywide.
Every door we can take.
Any addresses we can write on, anything connected to a narcotics case.
CID, tactical, the DEUs and tomorrow, on the 6:00 news we put a lot of fucking dope on the table.
A lot of it.
Dope on the table? We need to let them know who we are.
We can't for one minute let them think that this will stand.
The Commissioner wants to send a message, Lieutenant.
You make sure you and your people do everything possible to see that it is heard.
Dope on the damn table.
It's like the man said.
We're letting them know who we are.
Yeah? And who the hell are we? Again, for the record, let's make clear that Mr.
Bratton has not been Mirandized and that what is said here is for purposes of a proffer.
Agreed? - Agreed.
Okay, then.
Here you go.
That's baking soda.
Which Mr.
Bratton intended to sell to Orlando Blocker.
You can keep it with our compliments.
Where's the money? Mr.
Bratton did not receive money.
He left it in the car when he went to retrieve the sham cocaine.
If you were recording the transaction, the tape will confirm this.
And he wasn't around for the shooting either.
He doesn't know who the shooters are.
And God knows he wasn't in on the setup.
I mean, it was pure dumb luck that he left them in an dead-end alley and they were shot just two minutes later.
This is bullshit.
A police is down.
Mr.
Bratton had no knowledge that the young woman was a police officer.
And no intention of doing anything other than defrauding Mr.
Blocker of $30,000.
Ms.
Nathan? No charge if he gives us the shooters.
And if he testifies we'll find a way to squeeze him into the federal witness program.
As I indicated Mr.
Bratton has no idea who shot Mr.
Blocker or the undercover officer.
Best you can do is 286B.
What the hell is that? Distribution of sham CDS.
Three-year maximum, $5,000 fine.
That's it? If he took the cash, we could go to felony theft or fraud but the tape has him leaving the money.
Three years.
A cop was shot, Morrie.
So if we convict, he'll do every damn day of the three.
I can do the three.
Ain't no thing.
And the $5,000 fine? Shit, you still up $25,000, right? Nicely done.
Give me two.
Damn, Orlando.
I still can't believe that shit.
Man, all this shit behind this motherfucker.
Who the fuck was he? - He ran a club for my uncle.
Yeah? Yeah, first Stink, and now him.
Yeah, man, and I heard the cops been all in Savino's shit, too.
He ain't been around.
Little Man, neither.
Somebody could get to cleaning up shit around here.
True.
You can't just be going around, dropping 5-0 like that.
You know how your uncle is when people get to fucking up, man.
He starts taking that shit personal, man.
Look like a couple more niggers gonna get dropped.
What up? You Dee? Yeah.
They say you need to get with Stringer, right away.
See? You moving up in the world.
As long as you don't fall in with the trash they taking out.
Yeah, whatever, nigger.
I'll be right back.
Tower boys all nervous and shit.
Little Man ain't post for work.
Ain't answering his page, neither.
See? I'm not gonna lie.
She has swelling around the vertebrae and some indications of partial paralysis.
That may or may not go away when the swelling goes down.
Her family is with her.
What the fuck is up with Homicide? Are we on the shooters yet? They're working it hard.
The departmental response is gonna be to take doors tomorrow morning.
Citywide.
Every unit, every district is kicking in any drug-connected address they can write on.
We're gonna do the same.
Lieutenant, is that- - Except we're gonna hold back on the main stash.
The house up in northwest we tracked off the wire We advance this case more by sitting on that location.
And raids that are too much on the bulls-eye will have Barksdale changing up.
We might blow the wire altogether.
We got two addresses in the low-rises that are probables and another two row houses that have been used for stash as recently as last week.
But this this here is the best bet for a good rip.
Herc picked up on it yesterday.
Fourth-floor end unit on the south side of the 221.
They're dropping the re-ups out the window to the hoppers who run it off.
What if they change up the apartment? They do that every day.
Yesterday was the fifth floor on the north side.
We'll have a man on the church with a cell phone.
They change up, we call the duty judge who orally amends the warrant.
We hit everything at 11:00.
The squad that takes the high-rise needs to stage at 5:00.
We need to be inside before the building even wakes up.
Anyone who wants to sleep tonight needs to start typing his ass off right now.
What's up? Why ain't the club open? You going with Bey.
Bey.
Keep it clean.
Don't make no mistakes.
Going where? What the fuck you waiting for? Stop bullshitting me.
The main stash.
He knows we're on it.
He knows we held it back.
The Deputy.
We grab a senator's bag man in the projects, he knows that.
State Police bring in a cooperator, he knows it, too.
Like fucking clockwork.
He's got a rat.
Here, in the detail.
In the beginning when we started, Burrell had me.
I pipelined everything to that motherfucker.
But now he lost you.
So now he's picked up someone else.
That's how they do.
Can we talk? Excuse me a moment, gentlemen.
It's Burrell, he's gotta back off already.
What now? We're on a prime location.
Barksdale's stash.
Instead of making cases, he wants us to write a paper and take the door.
Why? - Dope on the table.
It's a photo op to make us feel better about Kima Greggs catching a bullet or two.
Christ.
You need to rip him a new one, Your Honor.
I don't know, Jimmy.
You back on the ticket, huh? It was just the usual bullshit.
They're just dicking me around trying to get another black face, make it four-and-one to even up for the last time.
The Governor had to promise two new appointments.
So now we're back where we were.
That's all it was.
That's all? Half-assed hack politics, Jimmy.
It has nothing to do with your case.
I need you on this.
So, who's my daddy now? I just do what the fuck they tell me, you know? It ain't on me to know what the fuck they have in mind.
Look, Bey.
Now it come down to this crazy shit.
Turn in this alley right here.
Right there.
What the fuck you stopping for? Go! Inside, man.
Let's go.
This dude is crazy.
Get in, motherfucker.
We ain't got all night for this shit.
Man, get in here.
Go ahead, man.
What's wrong with you? Check it out, Dee.
I need you to feed them while I'm gone.
You gonna give them different food for each tank, too, all right? But don't worry.
I'm gonna show you what to do.
Come here.
These are my Tetras.
You got Kimmy, Alex, Aubrey and Jezebel in here somewhere.
I don't know, she think she cute.
You take two pinches of whatever food I got next to each tank.
They set for the day.
You see, they ain't no problems.
Just beautiful as hell, Dee.
I'm gonna go upstairs, and pack some shit.
Bey.
Where we going, man? Philly.
You gonna take the truck back but first I got to go upstairs, grab some shit, show you what to do with my tanks, right? Philly? We shot a narco, Dee.
No Savino.
No Little Man, no Wee-Bey, either.
And the Barksdale kid from the Pit he's out the mix, too.
You think it was them that did it? Wee-Bey, Savino, Little Man.
Yeah, that's what we're hearing, too.
We got pick-ups on these motherfuckers and miles of NCIC bullshit.
Warrants for blood and hair, too.
It's Bey and Little Man, shooter one and two.
I feel it, Bunk.
Yeah? Right now, we need our girl to wake up and say so.
All right.
You did good, Bubbs.
McNulty, you know the situation is different for me.
I mean, for me, I'm- - Mount up.
I gotta go.
Prez will get you a ride, okay? Move out.
Police.
Police! Go! Show your hands, asshole! Down on the ground.
Move it, move it! McNulty, Freamon, check the basement.
Clear? - All clear.
Bathroom's clear.
Check the mattress.
Check under the bed, check all the drawers, check every fucking inch of this room.
Got anything? - No.
Bingo.
Got it.
There she goes.
Bag it.
Let's do it.
That's fine police work, Erv.
Ladies and gentlemen what you see on the table in front ofyou represents our department's answer to a culture of death and drugs.
And when an officer falls in this war others stand ready to pick up the challenge and carry the fight to the very doorstep of those responsible.
This is only the beginning, I can assure you.
But today, a message has been sent.
And believe me, this message is being heard loud and clear by all those who seek profit and power in the importation and sale of illegal drugs.
Slow.
Bullshit on the McCullough Street phone, nothing on the towers.
Who's on the rooftop? No one.
Fuck it.
Where's the money, man? - How much you need? - The bus cost like $18, man.
Your grandma ain't got it? If I ask her, she gonna try to stop me from booking.
I'm telling you, boy.
This country-ass shit got me all messed up.
I'm saying, you need to send me something for the bus.
Yeah, I feel you.
When do you want to come home? - When the money get here.
All right, I'm gonna probably send it today.

How is she? In and out of the morphine drip.
They got her stabilized is all I know.
Go on in.
No.
Unfreeze your ass off that wall, then.
Either pay your respects, or get your head back into this case.
Fuck this case.
Fuck it? Now you're just gonna, what, call off your little crusade? Is that what you think it was? A crusade? Avon Barksdale was a way to show everyone how smart I was and how fucked up the department is, that's all.
Just put Jimmy McNulty up on your shoulders march him around the room, break out the keg.
It was never about Avon Barksdale, Lieutenant.
It was all about me.
You think I didn't know that? You think we all didn't know? Listen, this case is gonna move forward with you or without you.
This case got her shot.
I put a battery up her ass and got her thinking this case meant something.
And you know what? Burrell, Rawls, and them, they were right.
This case means exactly shit.
I know it meant damn near nothing to me when you came in beating the drum.
But now we got that woman in there, that good police breathing through a fucking tube, because it meant something to her.
And the shooters who dropped Kima? They're still in the wind.
And whoever sent those motherfuckers into that alley he needs to get got, too.
So you can stand there, dripping with liquor-smell and self-pity if you got a mind to, but this case it means something.
Now.
You hit them again? I been calling them all morning.
They ain't hit me back yet.
Damn, we gonna tap out by noon.
Poot! What we got over there? What the fuck is this? What the fuck you think, nigger? Fish food.
Give me my shit.
Heads up.
String.
I need your pagers.
All of y'all, the whole crew.
Who else? - Sterling, Cass and Manny.
All right, go get them shits.
How am I gonna talk to my girl? Talk to your hand, nigger, that's the only girl you got.
No more Get out of here.
Just get the fuck out of here, man.
No more pagers.
Touts, lookouts, off the air, all right? Nobody gonna use these cell phones except for you and Bodie and y'all don't say shit on these, you understand me? We got the numbers and we the only niggers that need them.
Not your moms, not your girl, nobody.
You feel me? You use these phones to set up a meet, go to that meet and talk face to face, period.
So no more pay phones? - You deaf? I said no phones.
How I'm gonna reach y'all? All right, top number's for re-ups second number's for muscle.
You need me, hit me on the third number.
Learn them shits, then throw that shit away.
You doing this in the towers, too? - Doing it everywhere.
Pagers, pay phones is dead.
All right? - Yeah.
String.
We need some re-up, man, we gonna tap out by noon.
Re-up from where? You niggers ain't heard? Knockos took the main stash.
Why the fuck you think we changing up? Back the fuck up, young'un.
These shits ain't for you.
All right.
Cool.
There you go.
There we go.
All right.
The gift of corrected vision.
Compliments of the BPD.
Dang, y'all are focused.
What man wouldn't be? They been cleaning us for the past few days.
Last night they burned us all the way.
I knew it.
I fucking knew it.
I swear to God, I'm in this motherfucker's head.
Not a message since early morning.
Shit, I even had to cut Prez loose.
Send his ass on down to Annapolis.
For what? State campaign finance reports.
I checked all the stuff here.
But I got the feeling Barksdale's money has legs.
Shit.
All the work we did to get up on this fucking wire.
You don't hit these guys and expect them to stay in the pocket.
Plus, they know they dropped a police.
Then we need to change up, too.
Come on.
Shardene! Honey, this is Detective McNulty, who's working with us.
She works at Orlando's, helping us out there from time to time.
And now I think that she can see well enough to match faces to voices.
Lester, look, I'm not gonna lie to you.
I'm scared of this shit.
Time comes, though, I know you gonna step up.
We're gonna need Pearlman to approve her wearing a wire.
Can I get a cup of coffee? - What do you take in it? I'll get it.
A little cream, right? Those knockos motherfuckers cleaned my shit out.
You can replace product and currency.
Yeah, he right.
We gotta focus on what's real, here.
All of this shit is real.
They wanna put me in a box.
Listen, I think what's important is to take stock.
Ask yourself what's out there that can still hurt you.
Where are you weak? Where you need to clean up? Think it through.
Start with Orlando, if Orlando rolled.
You know he talked about the club, at least.
That punk-ass nigger ain't talk about shit else but the club.
That's all he knew about.
He wasn't rolling with us.
We kept him on the outside.
So you walk away from the club.
You're not on the license, you're not a listed owner.
They can't make a connect.
When did this shit start up? About the time that your nephew beat that charge.
After, maybe when they found that witness with the lead in his dome the shit hit the newspapers.
But around that time, the cops was on our shit.
The security guard, the one whose testimony sprung D'Angelo- - Nakeisha Lyles? - Yeah.
Bug-eyed ass bitch.
But we hooked that up.
So she can still hurt you, right? - Yeah.
The point is anybody who can hurt you can be put into play.
The less I hear, the better.
All right, yo.
Hey, yo, lock that door? So we got Bird and Bey.
Bird will stand tall.
He already in jail, and Bey about to go, too.
And Wee-Bey hard like a rock.
And we got Savino.
Savino know it ain't nothing but an Arm and Hammer charge.
I mean, he ain't gonna flip out over a motherfucking three years.
True.
Then we got that shit with Orlando, and the only problem there was Little Man.
Was.
Who else? It's over, your wire's cold.
The court orders give me a total of 90 days on five phones.
I'm doing the full 90.
You want to sit listening to a bunch of broke-ass pay phones, have at it.
But you don't need all that manpower to do it.
You want some bodies back, I'll send a couple, no problem.
Hold on, Lieutenant.
I gave you those people.
I decide who comes back.
But feel free to speak your mind, if it were up to you.
He asked you a question, Lieutenant.
I have no opinion.
Take your pick.
What's the name of that old detective from Pawnshop? And that young one, Valchek's brain-dead son-in-law.
Freamon, Pryzbylewski.
Keep them.
Send back Sydnor and Santangelo.
And, Lieutenant, if you want to do anything beyond listen to those dead phones you need to brief me first.
You did good, Cedric.
You play your cards right, all the work you did over the past few months will speak volumes for you.
And Maj.
Spurgeon is saying that he's retiring at the end of November.
Which opens up the Northwest Command.
That's right.
Hi, Ronnie.
Come in.
Sit.
Sheila, send Patrick in.
Yes, sir.
Anything up? - With me? Same shit, different file.
How about the Barksdale thing? - You've got my office reports? Wire's dead, but we're looking into a bug in the man's nightclub.
Aside from that, you're doing what? Pulling campaign finance reports for every politician in the city of Baltimore, right? I am? We are? And making calls to some contributors asking questions, doing background checks.
I don't know anything about this.
I mean, Ronnie, where the fuck is all this going? Those are public reports, right? I mean No one on that detail has come to me for any kind of subpoena.
You got back-doored, too? Just so there's no misunderstanding I want to give you this.
Copies of checks on the account of my re-election committee representing the return of five separate contributions totaling $4,500.
Also copies of the checks from the donor are represented in there, too.
Kind of like Caesar's wife and all that shit.
The only thing that we could come up with were those five checks.
And I don't know those people, and I don't know why they gave.
That money's gonna be returned to the donors immediately.
Guys, listen to me.
I don't know a fucking thing about anyone looking at campaign contributions.
Be that as it may this should make it clear that our hands are clean.
Ronnie, I want you to take that back to whoever's on the hunt and I want you to tell them they've got no quarrel with me.
What's up, String? So y'all want to get with me? Yeah, we need to holler at your boy you know, the one that dimed on Omar's bitch.
Can't recall his name.
Which one? The one that was at the Greek's that night.
And we paid him for the lookout.
What y'all need him for? What's it to you? - You ain't got to worry about him.
Say what? He's gone, he's out the game.
Out the game? Yo, the man asked you a simple question.
I don't mean y'all no disrespect.
You know I don't.
I am sitting here telling you that the boy is out the game.
And even if he wasn't out the game, he wouldn't be no problem.
But you know we just want to talk to him, Dee.
Let the boy be.
Just let him be.
Honey, just leave the damn thing alone.
Where'd you get these, man? - Prevas.
Broadway market? - Best chili dogs in the city.
No, man, not even.
I'll give you $10 if you can name a better dog.
George's Lunch on Light Street.
The Greek joint? That place closed back when you were still sucking on your mama's nipples.
My mama's nipples? I was sucking on them plums last night.
You owe me $10.
I said, name a better dog you can have today, not in world history.
You just said a better dog.
You go get that dog right now.
You cannot go get that now.
And you tell me - the best fucking dog.
Physically- Can you please keep it down? I can't hear a goddamn thing! You'd know how much I got if you laid something on me.
You like that freeze? - If you holding.
I'm fixing to be.
That's why I'm here, you know? To discuss some things.
When you done discussing, you come back.
All right, then.
Hold that pose right there, shorty.
I'm gonna hook you up with some uncut.
Y'all niggers talk too damn much, man.
Who the fuck is she? Housing police? No, she's one of them civilians they got doing security.
Housing cops wear the gray uniforms.
So she's not armed or nothing.
Do she look it? You leaving early? I was early, I worked the lunch crowd.
She's out.
Anything? - Table scraps.
What we want is being said in that office.
There's no reason for Shardene to be in there long enough for us to get it.
Take it out, I can't do this anymore.
You won't have to, darling.
I think they'll look at me and know.
I need to quit.
I don't need you wearing this wire, all right, honey? I just need you to go in there and do one more thing.
Look at this country nigger.
Damn, Wallace.
Wally! He kept crying till I sent him bus money.
All right.
I just got tired of that same old country scenery.
It was just too slow for me.
Yeah, but did you get some of that country ass? And if he did, it was on four legs.
Nigger, they got no farms down there, man, but they did have some Bamas though.
They got their Saturday night shit down at Sears.
They was like, you know- - Tears, right? You were about to cry.
That where you got them Die-Hards? - Man, these Timbs.
Yeah, they Timbs.
I can see the tree on the side of them.
So you gonna put me back on the money? Hold.
Look, if we do put you back on you have to start as lookout, man.
You lost your spot when you bucked town, dawg.
Come on, a real man would stay with his people he wouldn't run at the first sight of some blood.
Y'all can still holler 5-0, right? If he want back on the money, he back on the money.
If he want it.
My man might be thinking of going back to Edmondson like we talked about, right? Come on, nigger, let's walk.
Dawg, you ain't cornholed no animal for real, did you? - Go ahead, Poot.
You're stupid.
Don't be fucking with my Sean John.
So who caught it? - Garvey.
He knows about the whole witness angle but he doesn't want to run it up to the bosses until he knows more.
Why ace Nakeisha Lyles now? Because now they know we're for real.
Avon's cleaning house all the way.
First the phones go dead and then anyone he thinks we might be able to flip.
What about the boy? Fuck me.
We took him to the shore Friday and the plan was to bring him back up - on the Monday for the grand jury.
And what happened? - Greggs got shot.
Trooper Reese? This is Lieutenant Daniels with the Baltimore Department.
Is there someone that can go near Cambridge check on a kid we got stashed down there? - Call him.
No, there's no phone there.
Can you hang on? - I'll hold, yeah.
Have Sydnor pull a car from motor pool.
We get the kid back up here tonight, he sleeps on my sofa and we grand-jury him in the morning.
What about your stripper? - The woman's got heart.
I mean, I want her protected.
No more bodies, hear? I got room at my place, she can lay up with me.
I got no problem with that.
Remember who you are, Detective.
Protect and serve, Lieutenant.
I'm saying, this here game, it ain't gonna work for you no more, man.
You leaving, you stirred up some shit.
I'm saying it ain't your fault.
Dee, look.
I appreciate what you trying to say and all, but I grew up in the courts, all right? I been with them niggers since forever.
This is home, right? You ain't hearing me, Wallace.
Anybody asks you whether you in this game you tell them you in it for life, all right? You play it hard, you play it tight and make sure niggers know you gonna stand by your people.
No loose talk, no second thoughts, and no snitching.
Play it like that.
What you doing down in the PJ's, you lost? - I'm looking for you.
You know I be down here working.
A working man got to eat.
My favorite spicy fish cakes? - On the saltines with the mustard.
You gonna make me cry, you know.
I need to get up out of here and get back to it.
You be safe.
You, too.
All right.
This here.
Sterling's, baby, we're about to feast.
What the hell is Sterling's? Sterling's, up on 29th Street? Don't you know nothing? Shit, if it ain't up on the Westside, I don't know shit.
'Cause this shit this is me, yo, right here.
Who was that, your new girl or something? No, nigger, that's my mom.
You know Senator Davis? No, sir.
Lieutenant.
Clay wanted to meet you, see if there was any help he can offer.
Help? Your people are apparently pulling finance reports and checking up on some of the contributors.
I wanted to reassure you on that front.
I'm not involved in drugs, Lieutenant.
Good.
And this business with the senator's driver.
Mr.
Price, Damien.
Day-Day.
This business with Mr.
Price, this is a misunderstanding that is really of no concern to the police.
He had $20,000 of cash on him delivered out of a project tower by a known drug suspect.
The money was banded and manicured by denomination.
There's no crime here.
That was money that Damien already had on him when he drove down to Franklin Terrace.
Money from a cash-bar fundraiser the previous weekend.
We filed an amended finance report that shows- Fine.
There's no probable cause for a search of Mr.
Price.
I think we are in agreement on that.
No, there was PC for the search.
You're saying you have evidence that a senatorial aide is involved in drugs? I'm saying we had reason to stop Mr.
Price and effect a body search, after which we discovered $20,000 in cash in banded, manicured bills.
That's all I'm saying.
Will you explain to this motherfucker just what it is he's doing here? - Lt.
Daniels- - Excuse me, sir.
But it's pretty basic.
If the senator is not involved in anything illegal then he doesn't need to worry.
I can't be any clearer about it than that.
Fool, what do you think? That we know anything about who gives money? That we give a damn about who they are or what they want? We have no way of running down them or their stories.
We don't care.
We just cash the damn checks, count the votes, and move on.
Anything else, Deputy Burrell? Gentlemen.
You need to put his ass on a foot post so far out in the sticks that he's gonna see the Philadelphia cops walking towards him.
Now you just ain't talking to me now, Erv.
You talking to the Mayor the city caucus, the state central committee.
And right now, you got your hand in our pocket.
Eighteen, baby! Eighteen with a bullet, baby.
Det.
Sgt.
Hauk reporting for duty, sir.
And the best part? Carver's 37.
You know, it helps if you know them by the numbers.
It makes you sound more professional.
Fucking Carver he gets back from in-service training, he's gonna kiss the stripes I'm gonna make him kiss the stripes.
Congratulations.
Thank you, sir.
Appreciate it.
Sgt.
Hauk? - God help us.
Daniels.
Daniels, this is Trooper Reese.
Grandmother says this kid's been gone two days.
Wallace is out of pocket.
Two days.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Ain't no re-up in the towers, neither? Shop dead, yo.
What up, man? - Same old.
What's up with that boy? He's just a punk, that's all.
Dee put him back on count though.
Word? I heard he was out the game.
He was, but he back now.
Where he been at? Down his granny house, he says.
Right, his granny house.
I heard he damn near shit his pants when he saw what happened to Omar's bitch.
He just ain't built for this, you know.
His heart pump Kool-Aid.
Right.
What about you? You built for this shit? No doubt.
You ready to put the work in? You got heat? All right, soldier.
It's clear upstairs.
No extension cords.
No juice boxes.
No Wallace.
Dang, boy, Chink Bob's never be putting no napkins in the bag.
Motherfucker, because napkins expensive and shit.
So is my money.
All right, come on, go.
Something to eat? Y'all know what's here.
Let's go, y'all need to get up in this Chinese food 'cause, you know, I'm looking kind of needy right about now.
What you listening to? Hold up, take them plates first.
Big Tymers, their new video on 106th and Park.
-106th and Park? - The joint is vicious.
Yeah.
For real? - What they call you? - Buff, 'cause I got the stuff.
You got the stuff? Buff, you need to get up in these egg rolls or something.
Any word on the kid? I rolled around Cambridge all night with his B of I.
If he's down there, he ain't got no profile.
We got lookouts to every car in the Western and Central.
We're trying for an address on his mother.
Detective.
Lieutenant.
Wire's dead so we've been ordered to begin sending bodies home.
Sydnor, we have a little longer, because Cantrell still owes me.
You okay with Rawls? - I gave him his clearance, right? What's he gonna do to me? Keep it warm, Sanny.
What's that? Plans for what is now Orlando's.
The upper floors.
This is the property next door.
How'd you get them so quick? - CoStar search.
Plan is to get a remote mike into the office.
Maybe even some fiber-optics.
Only we don't know where Avon's office is yet.
Which is where Shardene helps us out in a big way.
What she gonna do? Take out a tape and ask Avon to hold the other end? Ain't none of y'all ever been in the military? How do you learn a Draft-dodging peace-freaks.
Get me a ruler and some string.
Why me? Why? - Because the man said so, that's why.
Wallace ain't no snitch.
Man, how you know? How you know where he been running to? He was getting high.
I've seen him cop.
He probably went down to the shore to clean that shit up.
Man, if he using, then you know he ain't reliable.
Come on, think.
Look, the man gave the word, all right? We either step up or we step the fuck off.
That's the game.
That's the fucking game.
Cedric.
You ever hear of an elected official in Baltimore giving money back? Whatever you're doing scared my boss shitless.
He calls me in and hands me that.
Forgive me for prying into the details of our investigation.
I know, it's annoying.
But what the hell are you guys doing? Yeah? Is that Avon's money? Eastside addresses but maybe Barksdale has fronts we don't know about.
State's attorney's returning this? - Fast as he can.
Y'all are stirring some shit here.
Why didn't you tell me? Aren't you better off that we didn't? I remember my mom used to bring me here.
We used to go to a place called Fruit Fantasy.
Like orange soda, some shit like that? - No, these shits was fresh.
My mom used to pour mad Bacardi in hers though.
Wasn't much she didn't pour it into.
Look at you, talking about your mama like you're still a kid.
I got to thinking on her.
Your ass ain't got to be hard all the goddamn time, neither.
Soft link break the chain.
What are you, a boy or a man? I'm a man.
So what are we gonna do, man, go have some fun? Okay, on this floor.
It's the second room from the rear.
The stairs start 30 paces from the front there's 24 stairs, about a foot each.
When you get to the top floor it's eight paces to the door of the dressing room and then another 10 to the back room.
Third floor of this building is vacant.
Otherwise we'd need a warrant.
$15.
Here take $10.
$15.
Motherfucker, I don't see no meter.
Get the fuck out of here.
It's 2:30 in the morning.
Easy now.
Hole only needs to be as big as your finger.
Not those Esskay sausage-looking fingers you got.
You know what big hands mean.
You know what big hands mean, right? Lieutenant I just pulled a fresh address for Wallace's mother.
We're okay here.
Where y'all at? All right, when I find y'all, y'all gonna get it.
You better come out now.
Where y'all at? Look, I'm not even playing with y'all right about now.
You hear me? Game over.
Where the fuck y'all at? When I find y'all, I'm beating your asses.
Now where y'all at? Don't let me find y'all.
Check this, Poot.
Little Man left his player and shit.
You a weak-ass nigger, man.
You should've stayed down in the country, man.
Y'all my niggers, yo.
You fucking brought this on yourself.
We boys! - You brought this on yourself.
Why it gotta be like this? You my niggers from B.
C.
, remember that? Come on, wetting your fucking pants, like you a little boy.
Be a man! Stand up like a motherfucking man.
Y'all my niggers.
You said you a fucking man.
Stand up straight! - That's us, man.
Do it goddamnit, if you Darcia Wallace? We're looking for your son.
Thought you might help us out as to his whereabouts.
Where-a-who? Shit, I be looking for that smart little nigger, too.
Boy took me for $10.
Recently? - What's going on out there? Nothing.
Couple of police interrupting me, while I'm trying to get my drink on.
Your son might be in some danger.
He gonna be in some danger right here if he shows up.
Snatched that $10 out my purse without asking.
I'll slap the bright out his eyes.
Here's my card.
You run into him, you call me.
Y'all got ajeep? - Over there, man.
All right, let's see what we got here.
He's packing shit up.
What you scratching your head for, man? How y'all get the safe in here, and you can't get it out? Just dial 911 and talk to whoever pick up.
Don't say your name or nothing.
Just say there's been an animal hurt inside the house and then you hang up.
What up? So what do you need from me? I need you to run up to N.
Y.
C.
to pick up a little something.
Look, I know we tapped and all.
Shit, everybody waiting on the re-up, but I never made that run before.
Listen, I feel like I don't have that many people around me I could really trust.
Not like I can kin.
You follow me? - All right? - How much is it? We just need to maintain.
Put out enough so we can keep hold of them towers.
When? - Tonight.
All right.
What am I driving? - A rental, no flash.
Where from? I don't know where from, man, one of those places by the airport.
Yeah.
We got something real.
I'm on my way.
All right.
Shit! - Which one? - The rental there, the Taurus.
I gotta say, Lieutenant, you got mad suction with the federales.
Yeah, Daniels.
Where? Wallace? Poor fucking kid.
With Wallace gone, that's Stringer out of the box.
He was in there changing his fucking clothes.
You believe that? Boy had to get himself correct.
We're on.
No need for an eyeball.
Let the satellite do the work.
How about I call my lawyer have him explain that whole profiling thing to you? Mr.
Barksdale, our tollbooth cameras have you on the G.
W.
Bridge at 2310 hours then re-entering the turnpike at the same exit Why did you drive all the way to New York for half an hour? Step out of the car, sir.
Keep your hands where I can see them.
Turn around, face the car, put your hands on the roof.
Are you carrying any weapons, sir? - No.
Any knives, any needles? - No.
Any illegal substances I should know about? Okay.
Spread your legs back.
Spread your legs back more.
Okay, slowly bring your right arm around your back.
Now bring the other one.
Remember me? - Lawyer.
Easy.
We're just getting started.
Lawyer, motherfucker.
Okay, so you're hard, but guess what? - I could give a fuck.
You? I'm tired of your games.
What, you want me to write a letter, or some shit like that? No game we need to run.
You're popped with a kilo of uncut.
Not that you messed up.
You did everything right.
Speed limit, turn signals, working taillights.
Question you gotta ask is how'd those troopers know to pull you over? Someone else fucked up.
You following me? But it's you they're gonna blame, and you who's gonna do the jolt.
Lawyer.
That'd be Levy, right? He's getting paid by your uncle, is that right? Yeah, he's looking out for your interests.
More than you.
Listen I ain't saying another damn thing to nobody but my lawyer.
By the way your boy Wallace, shot dead in the low-rises.
That's how y'all take care of your own, right? You're a lying motherfucker.
So what? You want me to write a letter to his mom, too? Get the fuck out of here.
You didn't have to send him the way you did.
In one car? He should've been trailing a mule.
don't make no difference he shouldn't have been there alone.
Look here, Brianna- - Ain't you ever heard of a trap-car? You send my son to New York in a motherfucking rental and you just let him ride with that package in the trunk? - I'm sorry- - That won't bring him out of prison! Better make sure that Jew lawyer of yours earns his money, all right? - D'Angelo gonna have to do his part.
Meaning what? You like the car you driving there, right? You like this crib? I put you in this crib.
You like it? Yeah, I mean, we all got a lot to protect here.
You need to remind him of that.
So when it come down to it, he can stand up tall.
You ain't gotta worry about my child.
I raised that boy, and I raised him right.
It wasn't me who fucked up.
Really? So who did? Why the fuck are we here? Listen, all you need to do is keep your head through the bail hearing.
We got a good shot at bringing you home here.
Then what? Who gonna take the weight for all the shit in the trunk of that car? Where's Wallace at? Where's the boy, String? D'Angelo, shut your mouth.
Where's Wallace? That's all I want to know.
Kid, you better think.
Where the fuck is Wallace? String! Look at me! Where the fuck is Wallace? I don't want this Payless-wearing motherfucker representing me.
I'm gonna get my own man, all right? So just get back in your car, and get the fuck back down south.
All right, you stupid motherfucker.
You made your decision.
Yeah, I made my decision.
Where's Wallace at? Where the fuck is Wallace? Where's Wallace, String? String, where the fuck is Wallace? Stringer! Bring him in.
You're done.
Why? We have the charge whenever we want it.
Why not stay up on the bug we've got in his office? The bug you didn't brief me about.
I thought your little bird told you everything we did a minute after we did it.
One of our people got hurt.
That's supposed to mean something.
We're hunting her shooters and by the grace of God and your good work we've got a viable case on our main target.
Just charge Barksdale with the attempt purchase from New York and bring it all home.
What about Stringer, his number two? He slipped off the hook when we lost the boy witness.
We've done all we can.
Are you hearing me? These are the people responsible for dropping a police.
Not just the shooters, but the ones who make the dirt happen.
I'm trying to put them down for real, not for some short-time bit.
That all you're trying to do? If that's all you're doing, how is it you have people pulling campaign records and finance reports? What the fuck has that got to do with anything? The money is part of my case.
There was a time when I was willing to say otherwise to let you and all your friends hide some of that dirt, but not now.
You want to talk about dirt? Have at it.
Talk some shit about your Eastern district days.
Talk about what was going on back when you was running wild in the DEU.
That's just talk.
Just talk? FBI field reports.
You came into a lot of money, quick.
And you can go to jail just as quick if I start asking the right questions.
This case ends, or you are done.
Hell, I don't even need you to lock up Barksdale.
I'll have your major debrief your detectives and type the warrants himself.
This case is done! You do what you feel.
You wanna pull Avon in on half a case? You go ahead.
You wanna put my shit in the street? Feel free.
But the Eastern had a lot of stories.
Mine ain't the only one.
A lot of people came through that district.
If you were gonna do me, I'd already be done.
But there ain't nothing you fear more than a bad headline now, is there? You'd rather live in shit than let the world see you work a shovel.
You can order warrants, and I'll serve them.
But as long as I have days left on those dead wires this case goes on.
Yo, look at these Delta Force motherfuckers, man.
Look at them.
All right.
What's up with Levy? - He said he gonna meet us down there.
I still didn't get this safe out of here yet, man.
How much money in it? - $150,000.
$150,000? Open it up, man.
No sense in ruining a good safe.
This isn't as much fun as I thought it would be.
The SWAT guys do love to break out their toys.
They think it's Tony Montana up there? They probably haven't touched a gun in years.
Fuck this shit.
You and me, Lieutenant.
What units are in the alley? Any sightline to the rear door? We're gonna move in on my command.
Everyone stand by.
We're not gonna need your men today.
Call them back.
Now wait a minute- - My case, back your men off.
Catch you later.
Good.
Barksdale's wearing bracelets.
Still no Wee-Bey, no Little Man? No, nothing there.
This is the best work I ever did.
I never did a case like this.
But it's not enough.
I gotta go back to Auto tomorrow morning.
I just feel like this just ain't finished.
Detective.

Hey, now.
We called earlier, they said you were up and by the time we get here, you're back asleep.
Been there long? - No.
You know, we didn't want to exactly disturb you.
I'm bored, is all.
Yeah, but still.
So, what you got for me? - Spreads? - Yeah.
Little Man.
For sure.
That's good.
Are you able to write? Okay.
Number two.
I can make Little Man, because he's in the front trying to snatch the cash off the dashboard.
But the other one, he's outside in the dark.
So - So, you know, it's okay.
Is there anyone here that you do recognize? Sure.
Wee-Bey.
All right.
Let me tell you where we're coming from with the shooters.
We tracked their escape route, and Landsman came up with their hoodies.
Now, DNA matched human hair from one of the hoodies to Wee-Bey.
Freamon, he tracked a call from the pay phone near the scene, to Stringer Bell's pager.
Now, the caller was using Bey's beeper code.
Crime lab, they lift a print off a soda can near that phone, and that matches Little Man.
You know, so, you know, I'm saying Okay, hear me out.
There's a downside here.
We don't have the guns no prints from the scene, no witnesses.
But worse, we're going to be dealing with a Baltimore city jury and a good man is hard to find in this town.
Twelve of them together, especially.
An ID of both your shooters will play a whole lot easier come trial.
Yeah.
Sometimes things just got to play hard.
We got everyone on our list except C.
C.
O.
We hit his mama's house and she says that he went up to Wabash for some court date.
You can get on the computer and see if any of the Sheriff's deputies can snatch him up in some courtroom.
Yeah.
No, we got Ronnie Moe.
I'm looking at him go in the jail van right now.
All right.
Fished our limit.
Let's go home.
"Sir.
" - Huh? - "Let's go home, sir.
" You're looking at a soon-to-be-made sergeant.
So what I'm saying is, when we're around the troops you got to get used to showing the proper respect.
So, "Let's go home, sir.
" All right? What's the count? So far we've picked up 12.
That leaves seven on the wing.
Anything worthwhile? Some phone numbers that match, scraps of nicknames, not much else.
We need something now.
They'll shut us down unless we come up with something fresh to run with right now.
The wires are dead.
The bug in the club is useless.
They're moving out of there even as we got up on them.
To where? - No clue.
But they're going to have to set up again.
Either Barksdale moves to reset his distribution or he gives up the towers.
If not Avon, then Stringer.
And why not Avon? With no priors, he's out two hours after the bail review.
What we put on Barksdale barely makes him break stride.
Okay, so we get a hint of where they're setting back up.
We ask the State's Attorney for a new bug maybe even a wire if we get onto a phone.
Not while the deputy breathes air.
We'll be reassigned before you finish typing up your affidavit.
How about the feds? You think the Deputy's going to let you take this mess federal? Why does the Deputy need to know? McNulty, you are a piece of work.
McNulty.
Yeah? No shit.
No fucking shit.
It's Rhonda Pearlman.
She just got a call from an assistant public defender in North Jersey who claims to represent a man by the name of D'Angelo Barksdale.
Meet me in Homicide.
Bring a tape recorder.
No drug lawyers? No Levy? - Case got some legs on her, don't she? - Don't she? Quarter of a million dollars bail.
You believe that shit? It hurts to even show that kind of money.
Where Levy at? He ain't at the club, is he? - No, club's out.
We can't talk there no more.
Come on, man, let's get out of here.
What's up, baby? So, this is it? Look, before you go anyplace else, before you talk anyplace else we got to think this through.
We're up to almost 20 arrests at last count.
And if you look at the probable cause, they all read just like yours: Information from a confidential source.
Don't this seem way too much for one snitch? I agree.
My gut tells me a wire.
Either a phone or two, or maybe something in a room somewhere.
Talked to your nephew on the phone about the Jersey thing? No.
Of course not, man.
No phones.
When I talk to him, I talk to him face-to-face, in my office, in the back of the club.
Fuck.
It's good you moved out of there.
I don't know, man.
I mean, if they got a mike up in there they got you and me saying all kind of shit.
That reminds me.
He said he'd be in tonight.
Thing is, they take you and leave me? - That's what's fucking me up, too, man.
Look, we'll know soon enough, as soon as I start pressing for discovery.
What do you want to do about the people they locked up? - We got to pull them.
That's showing a lot of money.
If we don't, we run the risk of making them enemies.
Speaking of which, where are you with your nephew? Is he going to see the light or what? Let me tell you something, man.
He family, all right? He not going to buck.
A day or two in the New Jersey bullpen, he gonna be crying waiting for bail money like the rest of them.
All right.
So, let's run the money through the families, that'll hide it some.
And don't use the same bondsman.
All right.
Look, gentlemen, I know it's early I want you to start thinking about who was charged and what kind of time they can do.
One of the ways to limit your exposure is what's called a structured plea.
That means that you're going to have to deliver your people all of them, down to a man.
I saw your girl today, for the idents.
How's she doing? Okay, I guess.
She's out of the ICU.
Moving slow, but moving, you know? Jimmy, you ain't been to see her? No.
I couldn't go in.
This ain't about you, right? I get back from Jersey, I will.
I will.
You know, Cole and me, we showed her the spreads.
Picked out Little Man, no problem.
Wouldn't go for Wee-Bey.
So, I tried the fat finger.
Damn near down on my knees begging her to make this play easier in court.
You know what she said? "Sometimes things got to play hard.
" Real police.
Oh, yeah.
What the fuck did you do to her? - I don't know.
You two in the same car going to make for a long-ass drive to Jersey.
Shit.
Damn, man, it's just too still in here.
You know what? We can- This place will be fine.
All we really got to do is put a little safe in here someplace and let them know the count comes here from now on.
Period.
Damn, boy, when y'all change up, y'all- Y'all that paranoid? You ain't even been up in there before.
I'm telling you, sis, this shit is different.
We are not going to talk about nothing indoors.
It's a new day.
Thing is, man, we got to get back on our feet.
You know, I mean, the longer we hold off the harder it's going to be to maintain the towers.
You want to get it back up, you lean to me and String here.
No, I ain't down yet.
You need to step back.
She's right, bro.
You can't take a second chance here.
You know what I'm saying? Until you fixed, sis going to handle that money I'm going to handle the products.
We're here for you.
All right.
But you tell Roberto, he got to make it a serious smoker.
I want them motherfucking fiends in the projects I want them dropping like flies.
You feel me? You send out the word, you let them know we ain't dead yet.
What about my nephew? - Don't fret.
Give me a chance to get with Roberto, and I'll get up to Dee.
Do what needs doing.
Tell him I'm sorry for putting him out there like that.
And that I'm going to make it up to him.
You going to make it up.
Most def.
But again, I want to make it clear that all of this cooperation is contingent on a commitment that my client finds acceptable.
Failing that - everything said in here, stays in here.
Damn straight.
I'm sure a proffer in Maryland plays much the same in Jersey, counselor.
And I do agree that with regard to matters involving drug trafficking, your client has been helpful.
He's indicated a willingness to testify that he was a lieutenant in Avon Barksdale's drug distribution organization sold large quantities of drugs for his uncle.
Delivered money, attended organizational meetings and on one occasion made a trip to New York on the behest of his uncle.
All of which corroborates much of what we already know.
What else is there? The murders.
Man, why do you keep on that? I already told you I don't know nothing about that witness being killed.
Which witness? Remember her? Jesus.
They did her? - Yeah, about the same time they did the boy.
All of them bodies.
They covering up, man.
Yeah, that's what we think.
No loose ends.
I can understand the guard.
She got paid, so she had to go.
Orlando, he knew too much, got to snitching, so he had to go.
But then there's the kid Wallace.
But I need to go past Argyle Street tonight.
Check in with Wallace.
Wallace? He off the hook since we helped the tower crew get that stick-up boy.
I'm telling you, man, Wallace is bugging.
Don't hardly even come out of that room no more.
Now, why he be like that? - I'm thinking he might be getting high.
Wallace? - The boy's scaring me with his shit.
All right, holler at me later.
That'll work.
You got that shit on tape? - God! - His name is Brandon Wright.
Burned him, broke fingers, gouged an eye out, all kinds of fun.
Wallace was the one who saw.
He saw the boy.
But he really didn't think about what they'd do.
You must have known.
You were standing there by that pay phone.
You knew.
What was I going to do? I don't call String, word get back uptown, what's going to happen then? So, you told Wallace to wait, then you called Stringer and Stringer, he gathered the troops.
Yeah.
And down at the Greek's, they got Wallace to point the finger, right? Then they went in like cops with handcuffs, so they could take their time on Brandon.
They dropped the body where we'd see it.
"Send a message to the 'jects," they said.
Wallace he couldn't handle that.
After seeing that, he wanted to get out go back to school.
We even joked about it, him being 16 and all needing to go start back over again as a freshman.
About a week ago, my uncle and String, they called me down to the club.
Stringer, he's all worried about Wallace, and I told him.
I said, "Wallace ain't no snitch.
" Plus, he's out the fucking game.
I told him that.
But I needed to do more.
I should've done more but I didn't, and, fuck, that's on me.
Any idea who they sent at Wallace? Come on, Dee, wild guess.
Man, I don't know, could've been anybody.
You know, shooters come cheap.
I don't think so.
Not in the Pit.
Not in his crib.
I counted seven beds when I was up there.
Where were the young'uns? - Look, if I knew, I would tell you.
All right? I swear to God, I would tell you.
They've charged with Orlando and the undercover cop but we're still hunting.
Him, he in Philly.
How you know? - I know 'cause I dropped him there.
Where? I don't know, a corner, North end, I don't know where he be staying.
Did Wee-Bey say anything to you about the shootings? We don't talk shop in the car.
It's a rule we got.
So, is that it? Your client must realize that any agreement is dependent on his full cooperation.
There ain't nothing else.
Deidre.
Tap, tap, tap.
She was one of my uncle's girls.
But we got people who put you with her the night she's killed.
Yeah, I didn't know that he was going to do her.
I swear.
They played me.
How so? My uncle gave me an eight-ball of coke.
Told me to take it over there to her.
I was surprised, 'cause, you know, I thought he dumped her.
But he said, no, it wasn't like that no more.
So, he had Wee-Bey take me over there.
You know, I walked up, knocked on the door she came to the door, all naked and shit, with this little-ass robe on.
So, she's your uncle's girl, but she comes to the door for you naked? She used to do that shit with me all the time, man.
Teasing.
You know how girls do.
Maybe you don't.
I don't know.
Anyway, I'm like, "Ain't you going to let me come in?" She says "No," because she got to get ready for my uncle to come by later.
So, I give her the coke.
She laughs about how she's going to put that shit on ice, for later on.
Refrigerate it.
I don't know shit about no refrigerator.
Like I said, I didn't go in.
I turned around, started walking back to the truck and I heard this shot.
Wee-Bey, he come running back with this big-ass.
45 he liked to use so much.
Tells me how he was tapping on the window, real soft.
How with the lights on, she had to walk all the way up because she couldn't see what was on the outside.
And when she gets up to the window and looks out You did good, D'Angelo.
Yeah, you did.
Y'all don't understand, man.
Y'all don't get it.
You grow up in this shit.
My grandfather was Butch Stamford.
You know who Butch Stamford was in this town? All my people, man, my father, my uncles, my cousins it's just what we do.
You just live with this shit until you can't breathe no more.
I swear to God, I was courtside for eight months and I was freer in jail than I was at home.
What are you looking for? I want it to go away.
I can't- - I want what Wallace wanted.
I want to start over.
That's what I want.
I don't care where.
Anywhere.
I don't give a fuck.
I just want to go somewhere where I can breathe like regular folk.
You give me that and I'll give you them.
No, that's great.
Really great.
Yeah.
That's our move.
Okay.
We broke it open tonight.
Wide open.
I'm bringing this case in big.
So, this squares things with Burrell, right? To hell with the man.
But I think we might have enough to reach out to the feds try to run this thing through them.
Cedric.
He knows about the money, Marla.
He's known for a long while.
Fact is, I wouldn't be surprised if it's why he picked me for this case.
What does he What are you going to- He's got me if he wants me.
Thing is, I don't think he wants me.
Too much at stake.
Too much mess.
Kind of like this case.
I have to admit it, Jimmy, this is a great case.
Not just because of Greggs, because it goes to that and answers that but because of how deep it goes.
I mean, the murders, the money- Jesus, I feel like I've been drunk ever since that kid started talking to us.
You okay to drive? I can drop you home.
You can pick up your car tomorrow.
No, I'm good.
I'm great, this was fucking great! You want to try to go federal with this? I am up for it.
I get cross-designated as an AUSA, and we can really run with it, you know? Career fucking case.
Anyway Ronnie, the thing at Levy's the other day, I was I was- Jesus, Ronnie, not here.
What are you doing? Like you never did it in the headquarters garage before? Jesus, Mary and Joseph.
Look what just walked in without a fucking escort.
Downtown Roy Brown, the living legend in his own mind.
Uptown Lester Freamon.
Fuck me, how long's it been? Your retirement party, wasn't it? And this is retirement? Yeah.
Nice fucking digs? I asked my supervisor when I'll see a little sunlight.
Runt cocksucker says, "When your unit turns a profit.
" But enough of my joy.
What do you guys need? We need a trap and trace, but not in Maryland.
Pennsylvania, Philly.
You got to go through them.
We try that, we lose a week, they tell us it can't be done then another week to okay our subpoena.
It's a little more complicated than just a straight-up trace.
We actually need a list of phones in Philly that called this number in the past week.
What's the number? - Drug lawyer, downtown office.
Thought Billing would be the place to look.
If we can do it, and I'm not saying we can it's going to be a fucking week, maybe two.
Thanks, Roy.
Lester, isn't this supposed to be the time you tell me how all-fired fucking important this is? The Philly number gives us the mope who shot that female undercover.
I'm telling you, Fitz, it's the perfect case.
You'll love it.
It sounds great.
But like I said, Jimmy, we're not fishing for drug cases anymore.
Try DEA.
No, that field office is too close to our CID.
We go there, our bosses know it before a meeting is scheduled.
Your bosses don't know you're doing this? Who'll be coming? Me, a detective name of Freamon, and Daniels.
I can speak for Daniels, brother.
He's played this thing out with real heart.
Come on, set something up.
All right.
Could I get 10 copies? -10 copies? -10, right.
No problems? No.
No? All right, man, I'll get at you.
You locked that door, right? Yeah? All right, so listen.
It's not street-ready, all right? So, everybody got to work on their own cut and vial up.
Now, listen to me, tell them to get this straight.
Three parts of this, all right? To one of raw, all right? And that's how we gonna do until we get the new stash.
And I want you to put the word out there that we're back up.
Understand me? We're back up.
It's a good target.
You guys have a pretty good case here.
Look at the violence alone.
There's at least a dozen murders, including state's witnesses.
If you can help us squeeze the Barksdale kid into a witness protection program we can run wild with this thing.
No suppliers though.
We're still looking for a way into that.
There was nothing on the wire that took us toward New York.
The trouble is, we have these post-9l11 protocols.
We can't pick up any new narcotics work unless it goes to priority organized-crime targets.
Meaning Cosa Nostra or Colombians.
Or Russians maybe.
We don't have any Colombians in Baltimore.
We don't have any wise guys.
All we got is a whole lot of locals a little busy tearing the Westside apart.
I hear you, but the Bureau-wide protocol applies.
To run with you on this, we need a recognized OC target or, even better, a connect to counterterrorism or corruption.
You go near stuff like that we have something we can bring to our ASAC.
What kind of corruption? Don't know.
What kind you got? Poot, we up yet? - Where Roc-Roc at with the shit? - Package in.
Who is it? - Onion and them off-brand niggers.
Onion? - What the fuck they got? - Some shit they call yellow tops.
Yellow tops? Got them yellow tops, y'all, yellow tops.
Yellows tops.
Got them yellow tops.
Motherfucker, what the fuck is up? Fuck is y'all doing? Do what you feel.
But be ready to finish what you start.
What you doing? This ain't no open market, you know that.
Ain't no market at all, nigger.
You ain't got shit to sell.
Back that ass up for those that do.
You know what? - What? Get the fuck out of here, bitch! - See, that's why we can't win.
Why not? - They fuck up, they get beat.
We fuck up, they give us pensions.
Close it! Get the fuck out of here! Heard you ain't much as an eyeball witness.
Bad as any civilian.
Guess so.
Where we at? With what? With the case, fool.
Jesus, give it a rest.
What's on the wire? - Come on, man.
Wire's dead.
They changed up after we hit them with raids.
Daniels didn't tell you? Hell, no.
He only talks to me about the good shit.
About how y'all were onto my shooters and stuff.
Yeah, well, we lost the wire, but the good news is D'Angelo's flipped - and we're talking to the feds about maybe- - Fuck both y'all.
She wants me to quit.
Says there ain't nothing worth this.
So, I promised her I'd think about it.
What do you say? I don't know.
I guess you should do what you need to.
But she's right.
It isn't worth it.
No? Yeah.
Probably not.
Anyway, what took you so long getting up in here? Shit, no cards, no flowers.
I mean, what the fuck, Jimmy? I couldn't, I I felt A case like this, it's always you or Sydnor or some other black cop who ends up going undercover.
I swear, if I could do it over If I If I could do it over you know what I'd do? Put more tape on that fucking gun.
I'm sorry, Kima.
I'm sorry.
Anyway, since I got you up in here acting like my bitch and shit with all your guilty-ass crying and whatnot maybe you can do something for me.
She said you were doing good.
Said she was proud of you.
How's she doing? Still shook.
But she wanted you to have that and told me to tell you she's sorry to be late with it.
Girl got such heart, you know? Yeah.
This is enough for what I got going now, man.
You give the rest back to her.
Are you sure? Give her my love.
Right.
McNulty.
Don't tell her.
What you got, man? - Over there, man.
Un-fucking-believable.
Five guys got jumped.
Not just you.
Four other guys jumped me.
I'm sorry, man.
It's got to be all the brutality complaints which means it ain't never gonna matter how well I do on no fucking test.
You don't know that.
You might make the next list, you know? You don't know.
Guess I ain't leadership material.
Congratulations, Carv.
Thanks.
Yeah? The world is on its ass.
Guy called for you from the phone company.
Says he's got the number you wanted for a house in Philadelphia.
Beautiful, thank you.
Good casework.
Thank you.
I don't think I'm giving anything away by telling that Arnold here has had a file on Senator Davis for two and a half years.
It took us a while to see it, but the quid pro quo is right there in that Westside redevelopment mess.
Barksdale, or his fronts, grease enough city politicians and word comes back years in advance where the development zone's going to be.
He buys up every piece of garbage real estate he can flips it three or four times, exaggerating the values.
The city's gonna pay him millions to condemn the properties for the renewal project.
It's a lot to work with, but we're willing.
The question is, can your cooperator give us the senator or any other political figure? - The cooperator? - D'Angelo Barksdale.
What does he have for us on the money? Nothing.
He gives you the drugs and the violence.
He gives you Avon Barksdale, Stringer Bell.
And they give us the senator.
Maybe, yeah.
You're talking about turning Barksdale and Bell into cooperators and making the politicians the primary target? Of course.
No, fuck the politicians.
It's Barksdale and Bell.
Those guys have turned West Baltimore into a free-fire zone.
No one's saying they walk.
What you are saying is that if we bring you the case it's your intention to let Barksdale and Bell reduce any sentence they get through cooperation? Jesus Christ, are you kidding? You're seeing all this ass-backwards.
Detective, in this office we have a mandate to pursue political corruption.
Can you believe these guys? - Jimmy, look.
What? Drugs and murder don't cut it anymore? How about terrorism? These guys have dropped 14, 15 bodies.
The witnesses, cooperators- That kind of hyperbole doesn't serve anyone, detective.
I think we're going with a different direction on this.
Thank you for your time.
West Baltimore is dying, and you empty suits are running around trying to pin some politician's pelt to the wall.
Thought you was real police, brother.
So, they got you all the way out here? I started out thinking you was in Jersey.
You ain't in Jersey.
I figured they still got you down in Central Booking.
But, all the way out here Do send a message, though.
Yeah, a message needs sending.
How y'all even find me? Ain't no one going to keep a mother from her son, right? You know, he's always talking family.
"Family is the heart," he say.
Well, I'm family ain't I? What about me for once? It ain't right.
What's right? You like for him to step up, take all the weight, and let you walk? Because he will.
You know he will.
But if he got to go away that mean you got to step up and fill his shoes.
You ready for that? Ma, you know I ain't.
I ain't ready, and I'm never gonna be ready for this game.
Dee, come on.
Look.
They're giving me a chance to walk away to start again someplace else.
And what you giving them? Look He messed up, Dee, he knows it.
Now if you want to get even with him, you can.
But if you hurt him, you hurt this whole family.
All of us.
Me and Trina and the cousins.
And Donette, too.
And your baby.
Your own baby boy.
This right here is part of the game, Dee.
And without the game this whole family would be down in the fucking Terrace living off scraps.
Shit, we probably wouldn't even be a family.
Start over? How the fuck you going to start over without your peoples? Without your own child, even? If you ain't got family in this world what the hell you got? This motherfucker Wee-Bey twitches, there won't even be a trial.
Detective Carver, a word? Shut the door.
What's up, Lieutenant? Anything you want to tell me? Been weeks now the Deputy Ops knows what's going on in this unit almost before I do.
Except last week we run the bug up into Barksdale's club office and Burrell, for once, he's a step behind.
You see it? - Maybe he- - I see it.
I look around the office and I see that one of my people is at the academy for in-service.
Lieutenant, I swear, it wasn't my idea.
I'm minding my business, doing my fucking job when the man calls me for coffee and a Danish.
I mean, I never even been on the eighth floor of that fucking building.
And there's the Deputy fucking Ops telling me how concerned he is about the case how he needs to be informed.
I mean, he's the Deputy fucking Ops, man.
Couple weeks from now you're gonna be in some district somewhere with 11 or 12 uniforms looking to you for everything.
And some of them are going to be good police.
Some of them are going to be young and stupid.
A few are going to be pieces of shit.
But all of them will take their cue from you.
You show loyalty, they learn loyalty.
You show them it's about the work, it'll be about the work.
You show them some other kind of game, then that's the game they'll play.
I came on in the Eastern and there was a piece-of-shit lieutenant hoping to be a captain piece-of-shit sergeants hoping to be lieutenants.
Pretty soon we had piece-of-shit patrolmen trying to figure the job for themselves.
And some of what happens then is hard as hell to live down.
Comes a day you're going to have to decide whether it's about you or about the work.
Grand jury came in Tuesday.
But you knew that, right? We're working a flight warrant today.
There's a lot to do here, in-office.
I'd be careful with that, though.
I understand the trigger pull used to be light.
Keep him down, keep him down.
You got him? Get him up there, get him up.
Bunch of low-bottom bitches.
Get his wrists.
Y'all didn't have to fuck with my ride.
Motherfuckers got lucky.
Yeah? Podunk lawyer in Denton's giving the guards a hard time about moving D'Angelo from original jurisdiction.
Put the call through.
Okay.
Officer Mace, ASA Pearlman, you got a problem with the lawyer? Okay, put the asshole on.
This is he.
You do not make it easy, Jimmy.
I have to admit, I am deeply ambivalent.
Excuse me? - Sit.
Sit! - Here.
I heard from Bunk.
Philly.
Great work.
You all did great work.
And the number of clearances I'm looking at here Christ, for the first time this year, we got the clearance rate up over 40%.
That's on the one hand.
On the other hand, I know the Deputy Ops got a call from the first deputy U.
S.
Attorney this morning asking whether an asshole such as yourself really works for us.
Of course, this is the first the Deputy hears his troops are creeping behind his back to take a case federal when they've already been told the case is closed.
You're a good detective.
And I've got to admit you got some stones on you.
Did you actually call the first deputy an empty suit? I want to see you land okay, Jimmy.
So, tell me, where don't you want to go? You all know that Baltimore city jurors are capable of just about anything.
Now, look, you want to sit around for months on end going through a bunch of half-heard half-said telephone conversations and see how well you do - I'll certainly respect the effort.
It's not just talk on the wire.
We've got seized money and lot of dope on the table.
And a lot of violence.
All of which stops way short of Mr.
Barksdale.
You know this.
All of it except for the New Jersey bust.
That one he eats.
Maybe he does.
Maybe he pleads to one count of attempted possession and takes, I don't know, maybe three, four.
Maybe he can arrange for everyone you have on those tapes to follow suit.
Maybe you get five-year pleas from those with no prior felony convictions prior, 15 for two or more.
What about the murders? Maybe we acknowledge you've got Mr.
Brice cold for murder of Orlando Blocker and wounding of the police officer.
Who? - Wee-Bey.
Representing Mr.
Brice I'm fairly confident that to avoid the death penalty he'll proffer to at least a half dozen of your open murders.
Naming co-conspirators? For that kind of cooperation, I'd be willing to consider straight life.
No, indeed.
I believe Mr.
Brice is ready to take sole responsibility for all of his crimes.
Still, you walk away with at least a half-dozen clearances.
Assets.
You take the strip club, you take whatever trucks and cars you can link to the drug trafficking, and also whatever cash you've seized.
He's got dozens of other properties: the funeral parlor, the towing company.
No.
You get the cars, because you can tie them to illegal activity.
But there's nothing else of his to take.
So, you keep most of the money, most of the real estate and Stringer Bell stays on the street with his hand on the throttle.
If you have a charge against Mr.
Bell, file it.
Otherwise, I understand that nothing in all those hours of tape implicates him.
Three or four years ain't enough, Maury.
Not for Avon Barksdale.
No? Make an offer.
Part 14 of the circuit court of Baltimore City now in session.
Be seated.
First up.
State versus Avon Randolph Barksdale, Your Honor.
One count of possession with intent to distribute to wit, a kilogram of heroin.
You have a statement of facts? - Yes, Your Honor.
Mr.
Barksdale is offering a plea of guilty in exchange for a maximum of seven years in DOC in consideration of the following agreed-upon facts: On or about the date of September 17, 2002 in the jurisdiction of Essex County, New Jersey Trooper Robert Warren of the Newark barracks effected a traffic stop on a rented Ford Taurus traveling southbound near Exit 13.
That traffic stop resulted from information gleaned from electronic surveillance of Mr.
Barksdale and his nephew, D'Angelo Barksdale by detectives assigned to a special detail under the command of a city narcotics supervisor.
A search of the vehicle, rented from the Avis location at B.
W.
I.
Airport revealed that a kilogram of nearly pure heroin was concealed beneath the spare tire in the car trunk.
In accepting this plea, Mr.
Barksdale acknowledges his role in procuring those drugs with the intent to dilute, package, and sell retail amounts of heroin Deidre Kresson, Roland Leggett, Toreen Boyd, all tied to the same gun.
Plus, we got the stick-up boys, Brandon Wright, John Bailey.
With Orlando, that makes six.
Plus the attempted murder on a police.
That it? - I do better if I give them more? - Life, no parole, means what it says.
This proffer keeps you off death row.
That's all it does.
You were on the wrong side of a cop getting shot, Mr.
Brice.
You want to dream about straight life for these bodies you got to wake up talking about Avon Barksdale - and Stringer Bell.
No.
But for murders, you might as well give them what you have because anything you leave out is outside the deal.
If they learn about it later, they can charge you later.
Fuck it then.
For another pit sandwich and some potato salad I'll go a few more.
How you want that? - Medium rare, a lot of horseradish.
All right, I did Little Man thinking he might get weak on that cop getting shot.
Yeah? Where's the body? Druid Hill.
Behind the reptile house.
You get back in them weeds, you might could find what's left of him.
All right, that's seven.
What else you got? How about them witnesses? The security lady, and what's his name, the maintenance man? Gant? Yeah, Gant.
You did Gant alone? They're out of potato salad.
How about slaw? Information gleaned from electronic surveillance would also show that Mr.
Watkins, a.
k.
a.
Ronnie Moe was integrally involved in the distribution of heroin and cocaine in the high-rises at 734 Fayette and 221 North Fremont.
In exchange for his pleading guilty to one count of conspiracy he agrees to a sentence not to exceed 15 years in DOC.
Mr.
Watkins, who is on probation for a drug distribution charge that was adjudicated in judge Prevas' court in August, 2001 Cedric! Major Cantrell.
Congrats.
Thanks.
So, where they sending you? - Northwest.
Spurgeon's retiring.
I heard that was going to happen.
Ever feel like a change, give a yell.
I could use a good shift lieutenant.
I mean, right now, the whole fucking district's a mess.
What isn't? - Good seeing you.
You, too.
You see, this ain't no DEU.
It ain't like that.
When you all came downtown, the job changed.
Down here, we make big cases, big hairy-balled cases like this Barksdale thing, right? And all that mess you call police work down in the districts all that fuck-somebody-up and rip-and-run bullshit it won't play down here.
You think I'm kidding.
This is what makes cases, gentlemen.
This! Remember that.
Nicely done.
Motherfucker, I been here since lunch, waiting.
Ain't nobody been through here.
You hear me? I been waiting and y'all ain't about shit.
Yeah, listen, listen to me.
Look, if you feel like that, then get off this phone come down here and step to me then, nigger.
Yeah, all right.
Yo, if Roc-Roc ain't here in whoop his ass, man.
I understand you did a tour in Homicide years ago but let me tell you how I run this unit, because how I run it is how it runs.
We work on a strict rotation.
You're up until you catch a call then you step down, work your case, and someone else steps up behind you.
This is the way we do business in a town with 250, 300 murders a year.
And it works.
You do not play the game for yourself, you play it for us.
If you remember these few rules you'll find me to be supportive and reasonable.
Very reasonable, sir.
That's what they say about me.
They say that, they do.
Yo, Dink! What the fuck was that? You take a nigger's money, then you serve him? What the fuck? I'm saying, you take their money then you send them round and let some other nigger serve.
The way you doing it someone snapping pictures got the whole deal.
You hear? We got to tighten up around here, yo! Jimmy.
Hell of a case.
Read all about it in the papers.
You done good, kiddo.
I gotta D'Angelo Barksdale supervised distribution in the low-rise courtyards and was also involved in the violence attributed to the organization.
Further, he was arrested by authorities in New Jersey in possession of a kilo of raw heroin intended for distribution in Baltimore.
He acknowledges his role as a leading conspirator and is already on parole for two earlier counts of distribution dating from March, 1999.
What are you asking here? As Mr.
Barksdale has two prior convictions and is insisting that the effort to purchase and transport the kilo was done on his own behest and is refusing to cooperate against others in the conspiracy the state is offering only the maximum allowable 20 years, Your Honor.
Mr.
Levy, this is your understanding of the plea agreement? - Yes, sir.
Very well then, Mr.
Barksdale.
Can you hear me distinctly? - Yes.
Are you now under the influence of alcohol - Wee-Bey, man.
How'd it go? For life, no parole, he puts himself in for Orlando and the attempt murder on Greggs.
Then he also takes Nakeisha Lyles Deidre Kresson, the two project murders that match that gun both the stick-up boys, and Little Man.
Little Man? Yeah, body found up behind the reptile house in Druid Hill.
He gave us that one just for fun, I think.
He also takes William Gant.
I know, it's bullshit.
How'd he tell it? - Boom.
He said a contact wound? It doesn't play.
Gant had no compression, no stippling.
Wound was to the front.
Bey's talking out of his ass.
I know, but this motherfucker's just taking murders just to take them.
He's taking life, no parole, for shooting a cop, what the fuck? Might as well try to spring Bird for killing Gant.
All rise.
Jesus, what the fuck did I do? You happy now, bitch? Are you the man with them jumbo sixes? - How many you fucking want? - Take about three or four hundred.
Damn.
All in the game, yo.
Right, but I didn't think- For sure.

Freezing my balls off.
It ain't so bad.
Loosen up.
Couple more months, it's gonna be spring.
Spring, huh? Listen, you gotta realize the bosses did you a favor sending you down here.
Citywide to Marine Unit.
-7672.
Go ahead.
Distress call from a private craft.
What's the location, Citywide? In the channel near the bridge.
About My father used to work there.
Beth Steel? - In the shipyards there, yeah.
I had an uncle who was a supervisor there.
Got laid off in '78, though.
'73 for my dad.
Party boat? - Pretty one, yeah.
More than one engine, right? - Probably an electrical problem.
Is that a police boat? How are you tonight? Good to see you.
Henry, how are you? - Drink? - No, thanks.
You're the Captain? - Yeah.
Harbormaster? - No, City Police.
So you're dead in the water? - Think it's the starter.
You're not a mechanic, are you? - Me? No.
I can't tell the aft from the stern.
Best I can offer you is a tow line.
Claude, looks like they're gonna need a pull.
-10-4, we'll tow to Henderson's.
That'll work.
Any chance you can hold off on bringing us in? Lot of partying going on now.
I wouldn't wanna cut it short for a little engine trouble.
You're in the shipping channel.
You tow us somewhere out of the way, and the band plays on a while longer.
because you see what I'm saying, right? I mean, three years in auto theft and I didn't learn anything.
I didn't care.
I'm telling you, I didn't even wanna be a police anymore.
I honestly didn't.
I think that was why I shot up my car like I did.
But this thing we did on Barksdale, the wiretap and all that felt like something.
That felt like something I wanna do.
So I was thinking, you know, narcotics, maybe.
Major, you want this stuff where? Just in here.
Up against the wall over there.
If there aren't any openings in the regular narcotics shift maybe assets forfeiture or something like that.
Easy.
Everything breaks.
I mean, with this Barksdale thing Lester Freamon had us deep into the money.
Real deep.
We could've seized real estate, cash, vehicles, all kinds of stuff.
If the bosses, I mean, if command had let that case go forward.
We were on it.
Look at that.
It's the dove.
Right.
So what do you think? - What do I think? I think you're gonna take the Sergeant's Exam next month.
And because I have Andy Krawczyk's ear and because he has City Hall's ear you're gonna make Sergeant.
Then you're gonna come out here to the Southeast where, because I'm your father-in-law you're gonna be assigned a daytime shift in a quiet sector.
Then you're gonna take the Lieutenant's Exam where you'll also score high.
I don't want to make rank.
I want to work cases.
Good cases.
Roland.
Listen to me.
You did good with the drug thing.
You buckled down, you did the work.
And except for that thing with the Grand Jury you helped take some of the stink off yourself.
Now if you'll just shut up and listen to me you might actually have a career in this department.
This radio ain't working that well.
We're losing it.
We're losing the station, man.
What you mean? We done gone so far from Baltimore, we're losing the station.
Try a Philly station or some shit like that.
The radio in Philly is different? Nigger, you gotta be fucking with me, right? You never heard a station outside of Baltimore? I ain't never left Baltimore except that Boys' Village shit one day.
And I wasn't trying to hear no radio up in that bitch.
Come on, man.
You're killing me.
Stop.
It's been perfect tomato weather out there.
These wonderful hot, humid days, and then rain at night.
This a Philly station? - How the fuck would I know? Why would anybody wanna leave Baltimore? That's what I'm asking.
Yo, that be the exit.
Take that shit.
So far they on it.
Ahoy, matey.
The girls always tell me about the little man in the boat.
Now I know who they talking about.
Come on board, man.
Come on, I wanna show you.
Fuck, no.
What's the matter? - The Bunk can't swim.
I ain't too good at floating, either.
So what brings you to the water's edge? Ilene Nathan called.
Gant case is coming up in four weeks.
She wants to start doing preliminaries on our witnesses.
That means the old lady from the projects, which is no problem.
And your man Omar, who's in the wind.
You got a line on Omar, Jimmy? - Well, he's not to starboard.
That's port, fool.
How the fuck would you know? - Come on.
Let me buy you lunch and we can think on this shit together.
I leave, I gotta tell my Sergeant.
That reminds me.
Landsman wants his $10.
What for? - For betting that you'd ride the boat.
You tell that motherfucker he's not gonna see that money especially since it was probably him told Rawls where I didn't wanna go.
Ain't the same up there without your ass.
No? Better, actually.
Hey, come on, now.
The canal gets dredged it means we all work.
Your people, my people.
The canal's the key, Nat.
You know this.
Yeah, but you know how much money you're gonna spend to even get them talking about that shit? We don't take a shot, we might as well roll over and die right now.
No, you get them to rebuild the grain pier.
You got a 100 ships right there.
That's break-bulk, Nat.
Best you'll do is one or two extra gangs a week on them blowers.
That's six or seven-man gangs at best.
But you try for that, you might actually come away with something.
You go down to Annapolis asking for the goddamn canal you gonna come back with nothing but your little shriveled-ass dick in your hand.
What's more, if the grain pier don't get fixed up soon some asshole's gonna fuck us by building condominiums all over it.
Nat, if the canal were 2 feet deeper- - Fuck the canal.
I'm going to the District Council.
I'm gonna tell them to push for the grain pier.
You feel me? - Nat, calm the fuck down.
Goddamn Checkers Local always acting like you're the king of everything and shit.
Nat, listen to me.
If we- Y'all need to crawl back down in them holds and remind yourself of who you is and where you come from.
Damn, Frank.
We just sat here and watched Nat Coxson take a shit all over you.
And shrivel-dick motherfucker that you are, you take it.
For your information I wake up every morning with an angry, blue-veined diamond-cutter.
I was gonna enlighten the president of Local 47 on this particular point and he chose to depart.
Blue steel, gentlemen.
For Christ's sake.
Three-and-a-half inches of hard blue steel.
Nicky boy, you working today? - As a lasher for Big Roy's crew.
Attaboy.
Make the family proud.
First day they give me in two weeks.
Is Ott around? - On his ass as usual.
Worthless fuck still owes me $20 for them lotto tickets.
Hey, Nick.
You need to see the Greek and get a number.
He's got one on the way.
Today? - Tomorrow.
The Atlantic Light over at North Point.
All right.
Yo, Frank.
What's up? You gotta get with Ziggy, man.
He's all over the place.
I'm here since 8:00.
You know I been here since 8:00.
Hold your horses.
You fucking goose.
I'm gonna find it for you.
Just shut the fuck up a minute.
How we doing? - Ain't a problem, Chief.
The fuck it ain't.
I'm down here since 8:00 for crane-to-chassis - and Tweety Bird here lost the can.
It ain't lost.
It's right here on the manifest as a hot box.
Where is it, Zig? - It's either in Bay 7, or- - Bay 7 is empty, man.
Or it ain't.
In that case it's definitely somewhere in the stacks.
Jesus fucking Christ.
You're killing me here, Ziggy.
You are fucking killing me.
Get me a number for your shipping agent.
I'll call and try to square it.
And you.
You clock out today and leave your box, and don't ever come the fuck back.
You hear me, Zig? You're fired.
Later for you, goofus.
Fucking guy.
He loses his job and he couldn't care less.
He ain't fired, man.
No? That's his father.
How fast you need this? Case goes to trial in a month.
Got to start prepping it this week.
Officer Burns.
Detective.
I heard they posted you down here.
But, I mean, you know, damn.
These motherfuckers don't play, do they? So what brings you downstairs? I was pulling evidence on the Gant case.
You know, trial date for Bird is next month and llene Nathan wanted to be ready.
You give him my love.
Who? - Bird.
No evidence.
What do you mean, no evidence? Submission slip says "Row BB, Section 14, Shelf 3 "Four, Right rear.
" It says that.
So? - No such thing.
BB has 12 sections.
This says No evidence.
Winters kill off the weaker varieties of caterpillars.
Fuck me.
 that's of an entirely different breed Fuck.
protection against caterpillars, they eat right through it.
But it is a sort of a warning system.
They here.
Franoosh, you made it.
Right, Father.
Got you covered here.
Come on.
You wanna see your window? Only Franoosh Sobotka would send all the way to Esslingen for stained glass.
The Germans are hard-headed, but you can't beat them for craft.
I was glad to do it, Father, for the church, you know.
Truth is I need to ask you something in return.
Anything I can do.
I need some face time with the Senator.
Barbara? She comes to the early mass on Sunday, the one in Polish.
We got nothing but problems, Father.
We need to see something happen with the C&D Canal and the grain pier's been down for a year.
I got tough guys coming in to confess things I never heard before.
I don't need you to tell me how bad things are at the docks.
So you'll set something up with Mikulski soon? You didn't need a German window to ask me for that, Francis.
And what's more you've made offerings way above what it would take to get that window up there.
How long since your last confession? I'll see you, Father.
This shit might be somewhere else, man.
Yo, the shit is always up in the door, man.
Motherfucker, you been standing there watching us.
You see any shit come up out of there? You seen we ain't take shit up off this car.
All right.
You seen it.
Who gonna believe us? This shit is missing.
And fuck what you're saying.
All he's gonna hear is that this shit is fucking missing.
Yo, check it again.
Yo, the shit ain't there, man.
Call your man and say so.
Nigger, what you say? - I said check it again, God damn it! - Whoa, chill.
Yo, man, cut that shit the fuck out.
What the fuck is going on today, man? Taking their time, ain't they? What the hell is going on? Come on, man.
Damn! - Ain't anywhere in this section either.
Start on the next row.
Lieutenant, those two bags could be anywhere in this damn basement.
You're right.
We could be here all night.
Right again.
So that's overtime, right? Fuck me.
I still cannot type.
Fucking white boys, I love them.
I fucking love them.
Yeah? - Dumb as a box of rocks.
Who? - White boys.
Talking about the brain-deads in my Kane Street case.
I call him up, I tell him I wanna buy some drugs.
You know what he says? "Okay, I'll sell you the drugs.
How much drugs do you want?" I swear to God, Kima, they don't code it, they don't ask for a meet, nothing.
And then when you make the deal, there's no runner, no bullshit.
It's the guy himself walking up to you, saying: "I brought the drugs.
Did you bring the money?" I'm not kidding.
I have much respect for black people after working with these idiots for two weeks.
If white boys wanna sell drugs in Baltimore, they have to make different laws for it like even it out for them.
Affirmative action.
Leave no white man behind.
What the fuck do you want? - I need you to do the seizures.
You got titles, deeds, registrations? What do you have for me? Thought you did that.
You're the Forfeiture Unit, right? I write all the affidavits and the filing for the City Solicitor.
But you've gotta give me the information on what we're taking.
That's a fucking hassle.
You want the property, do the paperwork.
You gotta step up, Herc.
You don't have me or Carver to lean on here.
No? How about you come on the raids tomorrow? Take a few doors with me for old time's sake.
You taking doors? Yeah, two houses and a bar on Kane Street.
Come on, Kima, mount up with us.
I know you miss it.
I'm done rolling around the gutter.
I am inside now.
You're a housecat now? - I made a promise.
I gotta say, Kima.
If you were a guy and, actually, in some ways you're better than most guys I know.
If you were a guy, your friends would buy you a beer and let you know.
Let me know what? - You're fucking whipped.
Whipped? - Pussy-whipped within an inch of your life.
I kid you not.
So So? So where do we find Omar? Who? - He say anything else? - No.
Just to come back.
All of us.
How he say it? You know, he just said it.
Fuck.
Yeah.
Shit.
They holding to it? - So far.
All right.
They got the times right? How about the mileage? All right.
So I'm gonna ask you one more time.
You never saw him out the car? - No.
You stayed with him the whole time? - Every minute.
How long before he came out the parking garage? - How long was he on his own? - Not enough time to do shit, String.
He was in and out, like, in three minutes.
Chill.
This shit is fucked up.
Look- You follow the directions? - I did just like you told me.
Wrote down the mileage? - Yeah.
Let me see.
See, right there.
No, you're three-tenths of a mile long, dawg.
And if you followed directions, you wouldn't be.
String, I did everything like I should, man.
I swear.
You got answers? You didn't have to take a detour in Camden when they shut down a couple of blocks on the Boulevard? You hurt your foot? - My foot? - You know, the way you kicked that tire jack.
You was on us the whole time? - Who, me? Y'all had people following us.
So where it at? You know, you should take me with you.
I should meet these guys.
If I meet these guys we can figure out ways to do business.
You know what I'm saying? - Zig, these guys are real.
What, I ain't real? Six degrees.
Everybody's going home to sauerkraut and Santy Claus and here comes a gang of us walking the other way Little Big Roy with his wooden leg.
Christ, them wooden shovels.
Yeah.
You children don't know nothing about them wooden shovels, do you? Can't have no sparks when you working grain.
Kaboom.
It's more like kaput.
You never gonna see another grain ship here in Bawlmer, my friends.
Zig, you believe these fucking dinosaurs? They sit around all day talking shit about how they used to off-load with shovels and carry fucking railroad cars on their backs.
Shit, and drink whiskey through a fire hose.
Go home and fuck their wives till breakfast.
There was some heroes back then.
Shit is thick in here tonight, gentlemen.
What can you do? This generation, they just don't know.
Ain't never gonna be what it was.
No, indeed.
Every night with these old fucks.
It's like 1952 and shit.
Boys, you know, when I was your age, I unloaded ten ships a goddamn day.
You know, I'd do it with one arm after a 300-pound bag of Polish dildos fell on me.
Whoa, wait.
What the fuck is a Polish dildo? Actually, at my house, it's a ring of kielbasa.
Christ, here we go again.
Bring out pretty boy.
But, you know, where you boys hail from, I'm sure any old breakfast link will do.
You know he's gonna pull out his dick, right? That boy ain't right.
It was just me and my old wooden leg, and my old wooden shovel and my glass eye, and my Polish pencil.
Like anyone from the Checkers Local ever used anything but a real pencil.
Shit, they don't even push one of them no more.
Talking trash about 1514.
Jesus H.
Christ, you know what? All hands starboard.
Come on.
The old tub is listing.
Can you feel her? You wanna know why? 'Cause them old fucks done unloaded so much bullshit that this whole motherfucker's gonna capsize.
Brace yourselves, we're sinking.
God damn it, Ziggy.
You're not taking your dick out in here again.
Let me show you old gents some bulk cargo that none of you could ever handle.
Who says they don't make them like they used to? Pretty boy is on the town tonight.
Fucking Ziggy, man.
Bring her in the boat? - Hell, no.
She'll fall apart if we try to bring her in.
What's the plan then? We'll hook her real good.
We'll tow her slowly over to the pier.
What's she look like? - What do you mean? - How long you think she's been in? - She's fresh.
Legs are broke, though.
Probably a jumper from the bridge.
All right, Ma.
Shit.
Kitchen's closed.
There's no service for drunks who can't get up in time to catch a ship.
What ship? Your father says the Talco Line is in today.
That makes two ships at North Point.
It's the Atlantic Light.
Ain't due until this afternoon.
That still is no excuse.
Good morning, Mom.
Couple of goddamn drunks I got.
And don't leave without taking your cousin with you.
I gotta clean in there, and I ain't gonna do it around his carcass.
You keep us guessing, don't you, Stan? At Sunday mass, you can't be found.
But early on a Tuesday, you arrive with an army.
$2,500 from myself and every other Polack in three districts and four firehouses.
And to what do we owe such generosity? - A surprise.
We ordered up a window for where you renovated the nave.
A memorial.
Let me see that.
To Polish police and firefighters.
Found this craftsman down in Glen Burnie that you would not believe.
For the nave? - Yeah, for the nave.
We could use another window on the second floor of the rectory.
The rectory? - The upstairs hallway.
How much did them dock boys offer for this spot? - I can match it.
Offerings are confidential, Stan.
And as you can see- - I can go as high as $4,000.
Just tell me if they went higher than $4,000.
More than $4,000? From the docks? How the hell I'm sorry, Father.
Who came to you with the offer? - Francis Sobotka.
Frank Sobotka has that kind of money? - It was from his local.
The Checkers? - They don't have 100 guys left paying dues.
It's a parish of givers, Stan.
Maybe you talk to Frank.
Work it out somehow.
Yeah, we'll talk.
Major? Well, if it isn't Barnacle Bill, the sailor.
Ray, how you been? I got nothing but red ink under my name this year.
Landsman's become an asshole with teeth.
Fish your wish, huh? - Jumper, probably.
This close to the bridge.
Probably, yeah.
Pretty, though.
She is, yeah.
I go into the men's room this morning.
Guess who's in the next stall puking his guts out.
Bunk Moreland.
How'd you know? - Useless fuck can't hold his liquor.
What's happening, man? - What's up, Fam? All right.
You ain't heard from Roberto yet? - Not a goddamn word, man.
Billy still got our money though, right? So you need to get down to New York, man.
Fuck kind of game this nigger playing? You sure of our people? I broke down all their stories and they came back clean.
Besides, I had some good people watching them.
Who? - Tank, Country.
How long that motherfucker been home? - A month.
Still on parole.
He said, "fuck that.
" Straight back in the mix.
All right.
So good, it ain't on us.
It's on Roberto.
Set it straight.
You know what I mean? So when you go hard on them, take it light, but be firm.
They got our money and we ain't got the product.
So, you feel me? The shit ain't right.
How you fixed in here otherwise, B? This ain't no thing, man.
You know what I mean? You come in here, man, you get your mind right.
You get in here and you do two days.
It's the day you come in this motherfucker- - And the day you get out this motherfucker.
That's right.
Exactly.
What's up? - How you doing? - Coming from the hiring hall? - I'm working the Atlantic late today.
How's it looking for Local 47? - You're shit out of luck.
ROIROs isn't going to anybody lower than a G-series.
Best you can get, maybe half a day doing break-bulk on an aluminum load at Locust Point.
Half a day, huh? - Seniority sucks.
Yeah, if you ain't senior, it does.
Yeah, you got that right.
I'm out of here.
Yeah, I'll see you.
The fuck you ain't wake me up for? - Just getting up now, fuck-face? No, actually, your ma makes a good breakfast.
No fucking way.
Bacon and eggs, baby.
You going down to see the Greek, right? Come on, man.
I ain't gonna fuck it up for you.
For Christ's sake, will you just get in the car already? Come on.
Let's go.
I swear to God, Ziggy.
You open your mouth, I'll fucking kill you.
Nicky, from the docks.
Spiros.
How are you? Good? - Who's your friend? - This is Zig, my uncle's kid.
Your uncle? Frankie? - Yeah.
Ziggy's his oldest.
My car broke down, you know.
He drove.
So you must be the Greek.
Well, I'm Greek anyway.
Boris Badanoff.
I know you from around the way, right? Why am I Boris? I don't understand this.
Everywhere I am Boris.
Shit, you're Russian, right? - No, Ukraine.
Kyiv is Ukraine.
It's the same difference, though.
No, you're wrong.
What's the matter? You don't like being called Boris? Sergei.
No way, man.
Boris is way better.
It's like the guy from the cartoon.
Boris and Natasha? Bullwinkle, man.
Rocky and Bullwinkle.
You want some coffee, pie? - No, I'm good.
Actually, what kind of pie you got? - Hey, Zig.
Shut the fuck up, huh? Malaka.
No, it's cool.
He's cool.
That's Frank's kid? - Yeah.
He's in the Union, you know.
But he's like an L-series, so he ain't getting any hours.
Same deal, same rate.
All right.
Who's driving? Again? You want to mix it up a little more.
Make it so customs doesn't put no names to faces.
You trust a man, you stay with him.
Okay.
All right.
Boris it is.
Sergei.
Yeah, whatever.
Come on, fucknuts.
Let's go.
How's the open-face turkey? - It's shit.
Let's go.
See you guys later.
Bullwinkle? - Polacks.
You fucking embarrassed me in there, man.
You embarrassed yourself, Zig.
You seen my nephew anywhere? Nick? Not yet.
I don't think he got any hours.
Hey, Frank.
Hey, darling.
Just so I can finish my paperwork early, what are your people gonna steal today? I don't know.
Couple luxury sedans, some color TVs, wide-screen.
Maybe a couple cans of vodka, maybe a whole container ship.
Okay.
Y'all have a good one.
You let her fuck with you like that? She's all right.
I like her.
I checked the computer.
It's Bay 9, Cell 11.
It's right on the bottom.
You working the light, ain't you? - I'm on it, yeah.
Did they say anything else? - No.
Just that it's the same money to us.
Let's go.
All right, Uncle Frank.
Winona.
Jimmy, where you been? Look who it is.
Sailor Boy.
You owe me $10.
Fuck you.
You told Rawls where I didn't wanna go.
You made it happen, Jay.
I told him where you didn't wanna go.
Yeah, and they sent me there.
I knew Rawls was pissed, I didn't know how pissed.
What can I tell you? - Where's Bunk? - Out on a call with Crutchfield.
What's up with the girl? She come off the bridge or what? Doc Frazier posted her today.
Blunt-force trauma to the head and chest.
He says she's dead before she hits the water.
What about the defense wounds? Bruising on three fingers? We saw that as soon as we picked her up.
You missed the defense wounds? I wasn't looking.
Thought she went off the bridge.
Also, she's in the drink with no coat or shoes.
Maybe that stuff comes off in the water, maybe not.
I don't see her going to the bridge in winter dressed like she was.
But then that's just me.
Tell Bunk I was here, will you? Have fun.
We already had our fun.
Dumping her on Baltimore County.
On the County? You fished her out east of the bridge.
That's Baltimore County.
She's their stat.
You sold them on that? - Rawls did.
He called up the Colonel and said: "You got one hell of a murder on your hands.
" It's all about self-preservation, Jimmy.
Something you never learned.
Hey, Norris.
State Police, Line 2.
A little to the right! Good, bring her down! It's there whenever they want it.
Now that you are my client, Mr.
Bell we are protected by the attorney-client privilege.
I thought Roberto would be here.
Not likely.
This, I'm afraid, was in Monday's papers.
It seems Roberto Castellano y Silva has been targeted by the DEA.
That's why we didn't do the business? Right now, Roberto and his people aren't going to be getting involved in anything that could further complicate the situation.
You know, usually, when you take a fall, you get right back in there - 'cause you know nobody's watching, right? - Sometimes.
And sometimes you wonder how it is you got caught in the first place.
And you decide to change the pattern.
He took our money? Your advance payment arrived as our problem did.
And I'm told the money is on the way back to Baltimore.
You know, I get the feeling that you're blaming us for Roberto's predicament.
Perhaps your problems in Baltimore and my client's problems here are coincidental.
But right now- - Listen to me.
He was the first to know that we took a hit.
He knows no one came close to rolling over us and all the documents from the case.
Nonetheless, we have a legitimate concern.
Considering the scope of Mr.
Barksdale's operation his sentence was, to say the least, mild.
But if the possibility exists, however unlikely that the leniency he received was the result of cooperation You understand our position, I'm sure.
Frank, it's sitting out there waiting and this Russian fuck won't take it off the pier.
I ain't blind.
I don't like it sitting out in the open that long.
The customs seal is broke.
Somebody's gonna see it.
Our asses are hanging out here.
Yeah? - Nicky, what the fuck? It's still here.
Shit.
Yeah.
Where's Sergei? - He's parked at the end of the lot.
What's he waiting for? - I got no fucking idea.
But the ship's almost empty.
They need to shit or get off the pot.
I'll look into it.
Yeah.
Okay, I understand.
Fuck it.
Get it on a fifth wheel and lose it in the stack.
We're at risk.
I ain't lying when I say this paperwork is kicking my ass.
Maybe so.
But the end of the day, you come through the door in one piece.
You like to think so.
But all these paper cuts are starting to take their toll.
You big, nasty detective.
Come here.
Let me give your little boo-boo a kiss.
All this? - I'm just getting started.
$1000 for the doctor.
$1000 each time, girlfriend.
Every month till I'm pregnant.
There's gotta be a better way.
That would be on you, sweetheart.
Come up with a suitable donor and we pay a lot less.
Not with your pussy would I fuck anyone of these guys.
What did you just say? No, you didn't just say that.
Sergeant.
Your floater's come back.
County boys are putting her on our side of the bridge.
No fucking way.
Yeah.
Some useless fuck in our Marine Unit faxed them a report on the early morning tides and wind currents.
Shows the body went in the water west of the bridge and drifted out.
McNulty.
Fucking Jimmy.
Fucking with us for the fun of it.
I gotta give the son of a bitch some credit for wit on this one.
Cocksucker.
Motherfucker.
The count is right.
What's on the shelf? Mace carrying 10 down here.
So, Moe Man holding about 38 up top.
I checked the stash, and we way low.
Moe Man taking our shit.
What he holding? He say he holds about 30-something, but I know that ain't right.
I'm gonna fuck him up.
First thing you think to do is fuck a nigger up.
When your brick brain gonna realize there's more to this than just thumpin' on niggers? - What Moe supposed to be holding? -38, thereabout.
Ain't you the damn fool? - But then we low.
Look, nigger, if we low, it 'cause String want us that way.
When he wants us up, we be up.
String is on top of the shit.
He on top of everything.
Go back to your spot, man.
Fucking McNulty.
The Prince of Tides.
Brother, you feeling strong today? - Yeah.
See if you can get his ass out of that chair.
He said it was fine if you wanted to hit him, too.
What's the first thing a guy from Local 47 does after he gets laid? - What? - Wipes the pepper spray from his eyes.
Hey, Frank.
Something's going on.
It's fucking girls, man.
Young ones.
There's a dozen of them.
Dead? They're dead?
Thirteen bodies, all female eleven White, two Asian-looking.
All between the ages of maybe 20, 30.
All very dead.
From Eastern Europe probably.
So this is, what, an accident? Your air pipe's up top, crushed.
Probably during the off-load.
So, yeah, accidental probably.
But that's his call, right? - Doctor.
Frazier.
How're we doing here? - How are we doing? - I mean, what are we doing? What's the plan with all this? Is this your first death investigation, Officer? Russell.
Yeah, first and onliest.
You got 13 for the price of one.
We're gonna start cutting this afternoon.
Anything you got by way of identifications should come through my office.
What identification? So far, we don't have a passport or visa in the bunch.
Whatever you find in this luggage, send it over or they're all going to the Anatomy Board as Jane Does.
Who's the investigating agency? If they were alive, they'd be illegals, and that would mean Immigration.
But they're dead, so they're cargo.
Cargo, but no contraband.
There's nothing to be seized as a customs violation.
They're dead on Port Authority property, right? - Yeah.
That's a state thing.
We'll eat it.
If it's accidental, then it's just about IDs on these stowaways, right? Good enough for me, brother.
No reason to open a full case folder that I can see.
Wait a minute.
You CID guys are rolling out on this? No crime, no investigation.
All you've got right here, Officer Russell, is a lot of paperwork.
And then there was one.
You don't have to do this.
No? Anything you're gonna say I already said to Spiros.
You called him a Greek asshole? You think we wanted this? I don't know what the fuck you people want and don't want.
All I know is, I got a can full of young girls suffocating to death on my docks.
This was a mistake.
A mistake? They fucking died in that can while this stupid son of a bitch sat there with his dick in his hands.
You know nothing.
We understand you're upset, Frank.
We are upset, too, okay? Sergei was supposed to wait for our friend to come off the boat.
Our friend was supposed to tell us that there was no problem you know, no Customs.
He did not come off the boat.
Why the fuck not? This is what we're trying to find out.
We don't know.
Because you don't get the right message, these girls are dying on my docks? This is how it goes? On my docks, this happened! I understand how you feel but we're upset, too.
Everybody, we're all upset.
Nobody here wanted this.
Uncle Frank, they're saying it wasn't on purpose.
You could've told me there were girls in that fucking can.
You could've told me, so I didn't just shove them back in the stacks like I did, right? Why didn't you tell me what was in that motherfucking can? Now you want to know what's in the cans? Before, you wanted to know nothing.
Now, you ask.
Guns, okay? Drugs, whores, vodka, BMWs beluga caviar or bombs, maybe.
Bad terrorists with big nuclear bombs.
Boom.
I am kidding you, Frank, it's a joke.
But you don't ask because you don't want to know.
Tell the Greek that next time he's got something breathing in one of them cans, I need to know it.
Give him a couple of days, you know? So Roberto been caught? Yep, DEA got him in New York.
Now the shit makes some sense.
The money we sent for the last go-round came back.
All of it.
Damn, they ain't gonna touch us now? Goddamn Dominicans running around scared acting like we the problem.
Roberto won't even see us.
Stringer had to go to the lawyer up there.
They saying they have to be sure before they get back with us.
They saying you only got seven years, so- - So I'm a motherfucking snitch? They ain't saying they think it.
They just don't know how the Feds got to Roberto.
So we on the outside.
Yep.
Look we hanging on to them projects with scraps.
Avon, you gotta have somebody for us.
A friend in Atlanta owns a rim shop, name of Vargus.
Have Stringer fly down there tomorrow and meet him.
You seen D'Angelo lately? He on the J-tier, you know what I mean? It's very difficult for me to get over there, you know? So you ain't checking on him, and Donette's out and about.
I don't know what's what anymore.
Now, what's up with Donette? I leave messages, she ain't call back.
She ain't had her ass down here regular neither.
We need to tighten shit up, Avon.
She should be bringing his son by every week.
Yeah, I'm gonna put Stringer on that, too.
After all he has done for us Dee needs to be cared for, Avon.
Promises were made.
I know.
He took the 20, he ain't complaining.
He is carrying a lot of weight for this family.
And we keeping him close.
Dee being cold toward me right now.
He in this motherfucker trying to make adjustments and shit.
Adjustments? Brianna you know damn well I ain't gonna let shit happen to him, right? - You got these off the boat? - What, in winter? In a couple of months.
Fringe benefit.
Can't catch crabs in Homicide, right? Except maybe the occasional emergency room nurse every now and again.
Need some air in here.
Leave it.
I don't need the hassle if Rawls comes past.
You're not the run-of-the-mill kind of asshole, are you? - You're the special kind of asshole.
I'm special, all right.
How long did it take you to figure out the tide took that girl over the county line? - Three hours.
Three hours with your little harbor maps and your tide tables just to stick Rawls with an extra body.
Never mind that you just fucked Cole with a stone whodunit.
That's collateral damage.
Yeah.
Are you gonna waste that crab gut? You're a pussy, besides, Jimmy.
We need Omar, Jimmy.
You see this.
Thirteen girls? - Yeah, I heard about it.
Who caught it? - It ain't ours.
Port police has jurisdiction over Patapsco.
Ain't gonna be a murder either, so who gives a fuck? Listen, Jimmy, I ain't got no case on Bird unless that crazy motherfucker Omar testifies.
You hear me? It's time you show Bunk the love.
You want love, you come and sit on my lap.
Shit.
This pretty motherfucker comes over and tells me the customs seal got broke on the dock and I'm responsible.
Can you fucking believe that? I seen the goddamn thing on the crane, the seal's already broke.
Who got to it? The crew probably.
Some goddamn ordinary seamen.
What was it? - Vodka, I think.
I ain't saying we didn't squeeze a case or two but fuck it, Frank, the can was already open.
I didn't come to the union hall today on the back of no bread truck.
I swear, Frank, we grabbed a couple cases at the end after everyone of them sailor boys damn near raped it.
A couple of cases? - Yeah, it was four.
What the fuck is up with the police? - What? They're stroking tickets on every fucking car.
"Rear tag not entirely visible?" You got the tow bar set high.
"Emergency access blocked.
" Are you kidding me? We've been parking this side of the building since the fucking ships had sails.
Come on, pal, what the fuck? - It ain't me, it's my boss.
Who's your boss? - Valchek, Southeast district.
Stan Valchek? The district commander, yeah.
That sawed-off piece of shit.
Why the hell is he fucking with us? Whatever it's about, you definitely got the man's attention 'cause word comes down this morning from my shift lieutenant we're to ride past your union hall twice a day and paper cars.
You work for a gaping asshole.
More than one actually.
We're not gonna put up with this shit, we're gonna go downtown on it.
Take it all the way to the mayor's office, I can't blame you, but leave me out of it.
It's chain of command.
I mean, I gotta live with the son of a bitch, too, right? - You can't tell me this place ain't clean.
You talk when I say you can.
Who told you to decorate, nigger? Cell look pretty fucked up to me.
What you calling clean? - Man, I ain't done shit.
Don't say that to me, motherfucker! Pets, too? No, you see, they plastic, they got little motors and all, man.
Clean this shit before lock-down.
That's four in a row, bitch! Wait here, this won't take long.
What do you want from me? He's an E-rate and you're a "G.
" He wants the ship, he gets the ship.
Seniority, Mims, seniority.
There ain't no union without it, brother.
Your sweetheart's out there.
Who? I gotta go, Mims, I got to.
Kind of empty in here.
Everyone's working.
You getting the message? - The message? I had people working on a window for the nave up St.
Casmir's since Easter you know that? I took money from half a dozen different people told them where it was gonna go.
You tell Father Lewandowski? - I was gonna surprise him.
Yeah, you surprised everybody.
Now there's one window too many, right? Here's the thing, Father Lew says he could take another window in the rectory on the second floor.
Good for you.
No, good for you, Frank.
You don't want my finger in your eye, you better do what's right here.
What's right? What's right would be for you to come down here to my house like a decent human being and ask a common courtesy.
But that's not you, it's not your way.
My old man always said you were a half-ass punk over at Holy Redeemer as a kid.
My sister said you were a pain in the ass pest at all them CYO dances where none of the girls would even look at you.
Damn near everyone at the Point said when you got your badge it was too much for anybody named Valchek to have a patrolman's drag.
And sure enough, you've been an official asshole every day since.
Fuck you! And your window! Where are you gonna be? I'm gonna go find some lunch somewhere, maybe.
Give me an hour, yeah? - Yeah.
What the fuck is this? - A knot.
Why don't you just do bunny ears? So what else we got? Medics, clothes, bedrolls, that's it.
Here's a letter, though.
A letter? What language? Who knows? Same backwards-ass writing, though.
That's like Russian or something, I'm telling you.
Can't figure the name or the address but the stamp says "Magyar" on it.
Where's Magyar? - What the hell do I look like, Rand McNally? Which one of your detectives caught all the dead girls? Detectives? They're at the bar already.
These yours? They chalked it up as an accidental and dumped the paperwork on us.
She found them, she writes on it.
I'm McNulty, City Marine Unit.
Beatrice Russell.
You got any IDs yet? - No visas or passports.
A few scraps of paper, but nothing to make sense of.
Russian alphabet on most of it.
You just curious? - Yeah.
Why? Day before yesterday I fished out a Jane Doe from near the bridge.
There's no missing person report on file.
We got 14 bedrolls and 13 bodies.
Mine was a murder.
A murder, you're kidding me? We got some photos, if you wanna take a look.
I called the morgue this morning the only thing they can say is the dental work isn't local.
Overseas, they think.
Is that your girl? - Think so.
Looks better here.
You got her in the water, day before yesterday, out by the bridge? Why would you have a murdered girl in the water and the rest of them are suffocating in a can at Patapsco? - What went wrong? - Air pipe up top got crushed.
Happened when cargo shifted around, most likely.
They had cargo up front of the container with a false back after about 25 feet.
You had cartons stacked in front but a tight passage to a small door in the false wall opens from the outside only.
They're in here the whole trip? - Probably not.
Once they're at sea, there's usually someone in the crew who's in on it, you know, a shepherd.
He let's them out to eat, move around, use the bathroom, whatever.
They were clawing at the wall for air.
That's what the medical examiner said anyway.
Where's the air pipe? - That's the hole.
Pipe's up top.
You get a lot of stowaways? Some.
Usually it's Customs or INS that finds them.
Most are Dominicans or Haitians, or from that part of the world, anyway.
Not so much from Europe? - A bit more since 9l11, actually.
I think because people can't get in on visas anymore like they used to.
There you go.
Usually, if the shepherd is doing his job he tries to put a can like this on bottom of the stack so they can pop it and the girls just walk out on the floor of the hold.
Where was this one? - Look.
What? - That look right to you? - What do you mean? - You said you were with the Marine Unit? - Yeah.
What does the Marine Unit have to do with a bunch of dead girls in a can? Not a thing.
What do you want me to do? You can go to Father Lew, ask him to give Sobotka back his money.
Switch the windows, maybe.
You ever in your life seen a priest give money back? The guy pays for a window, he gets a window.
I thought you had suction.
At City Hall, I got suction.
Down Annapolis, I got suction.
But who but the Pope has any drag with the cardinal? Get over it.
How the fuck's he get that kind of money anyway? Now, that's a good question.
I mean, the whole I.
B.
S.
can't have 1,500 guys left in this town and there ain't 100 checkers.
They got the car ships coming in the roll-onlroll-off cargo is keeping them afloat.
That's all they got? - Pretty much.
Past six months, I.
B.
S.
hired Bruce Dibiago's people to lobby for them down in Annapolis.
They've been good with the political contributions.
They're throwing around a lot of cash.
How can they? - You tell me.
Dibiago does not come cheap.
This is real money we're talking.
You know what I think? I think Francis Sobotka's into some dirt.
You're the cop, not me.
The Grainery? So I hear Burrell's gonna be the next police commissioner.
Yeah, I've seen worse.
See, if it's crushed by another container, it should've been one single movement maybe two if something shifts, and then shifts back again.
This looks like someone has been pounding on it in a bunch of spots.
See? Before I rule it, I wanna go down with a metallurgist to be sure.
But yeah, from the look of it you just bought yourself 13 homicides.
Congratulations.
If the commissioner goes down to Washington, it's you, right? That's for the mayor to decide.
I'd have to clear the council, too.
If the mayor wants you, that's not much of a problem.
You been around as long as me, you make a few enemies.
What, the First District guys? They're not gonna start nothing.
They're pushing Shipley.
See, that's racist.
You know, it personally offends me that anybody would reach down past you to elevate some colonel just because he happens to be white.
You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna get on the phone and call my friends at the Hall.
That'll bring the First District in line.
That's very kind.
And what if anything is there that I can do for you, Maj.
Valchek? Funny you should ask.
I need a detail.
CID people mostly, though I can spare some bodies out of my district, too.
What for? I got some guys in the Southeast that are showing a lot of money.
Port guys, longshoremen.
I.
B.
S.
? I'm not talking about going after the whole union.
Just a couple of guys in one local that look fat.
Drugs, maybe, or the usual thieving.
Frank Sobotka, you heard the name? - No.
And I'm not saying the problem even goes past him.
What's he to you? - To me? He's an asshole.
Six men for six weeks.
Rawls will pick them.
You ordered more than you ate.
It's cold out here.
Cedric, I shouldn't have brought it up again, I'm sorry.
You're right.
You're always right.
I'm just saying you have to be realistic.
You did what you did, and now you are where you are.
In the basement.
If they buried you any deeper, you'd be under the damn building.
Burrell won't be there forever.
Burrell is going to be the next police commissioner, and you know it.
But you've got the law degree.
With your police experience, half a dozen firms would think you're a prize.
You've got options.
Just because they don't- - You're right.
I'll put in my papers.
Who wants breakfast? - Christ, it's about time.
Lucky's was closed.
I had to go to the metro.
I thought Mutt be working North Point today.
He like them Ro-ro ships.
No, his wife is having some kind of operation, so he gave back his hours.
Who got them? - New Charles works for Mutt.
Yo, Zig.
You working today? No, came down here to have breakfast with you duper-faced fucks.
Most important goddamn meal of the goddamn day, right? - Set them up, Dolores, Zig is thirsty.
That's right, I'm thirsty.
You know what? Bottoms up, you ugly whores.
Nick.
What's up? Come here.
I got a line on something.
Oh, yeah? You know White Mike from down Curtis Bay? - He's gonna stake me to a package.
A package? Dope, Nicky, dope.
I got work today, Zig.
Yeah, and I'm gonna make as much money not working.
You see what I'm saying? - So why the fuck you coming to me? - I want you to come in on it with me.
You bring a little cash as money down, my man might give us a bigger package.
We turn it around, we both get paid.
All right, ship's in, gentlemen.
Fuck that shit, Zig.
Time to work! - Nicky, come on, man.
Can I ride with you? Will you think about it? Dolores, can I get another shot? - What's up? - DWI checkpoint.
Step out of the car for a Breathalyzer.
It's 8:00 in the goddamn morning.
Who the fuck gets drunk at 8:00 in the morning? Bill, I'm not arguing that the jurisdiction's not technically ours.
Patapsco's definitely Port Authority property and the Port Police have the jurisdiction.
That's not in dispute here.
Good.
But they're not equipped for a death investigation.
You dump 13 bodies on them, you're dumping them on us.
MSP is gonna have to pick up that slack, overburdened as we are.
Robbie, I have fought and scratched and clawed for four months to get my clearance rate up above 50% and right now, it stands at exactly 51.
6%.
Do you happen to know what my clearance rate will be if I take 13 whodunits off your hands? -39.
4%.
Bill, like I told you- We did not get to be colonels by being complete fucking idiots, right? Robbie, you poor bastard, you look like you need a cup of coffee.
The man is a god.
Big chief.
I gotta get him back to maximum security by 6:00, all right? Yeah.
Come on in, man.
Here, sit down.
Fix yourself something to eat, man.
No, man, I ain't hungry, I ate.
What? You crazy, this is good shit, man.
Better get in this.
No.
Look, man if he tearing your room down, man we keep bringing more stuff in.
It's gonna get so he can't tear it down fast enough.
You feel me? He fucked with my fish though, I don't He ain't have to go there, man.
What's up with this motherfucker? - You remember Ladontay? Burner from over the Poe Homes? Caught him over at Carver parking lot after school? We did that? Tilghman was Ladontay's cousin or some such.
He found out I ate the charge, he busting my chops.
Ladontay? I can't even remember that one.
You need a scorecard to keep up with your lethal ass.
Avon, he fixing to stay in my shit.
Listen.
I'm gonna talk to him, all right? I'm gonna set it straight.
All right? - What's his name again? - Tilghman, he work the dayshift on J-tier.
I seen him around.
Man, all these CO's are fronting and shit.
You got the guards bringing your meals in.
This punk motherfucker Tilghman running around acting righteous but he bringing shit in here, steady slinging on the side.
Don't fret.
All right? It's nothing.
I'm gonna take care of it.
The city won't take it? No, it's Port Authority property.
It's state jurisdiction.
So it's MSP out of Pikesville.
Case needs real murder police.
You don't give a shit.
Just wanna fuck Rawls, don't you? Absolutely.
What can you give me? - This is about fucking over your boss? - If they don't eat the cases, then you will.
What do you need? First of all, how big was the false compartment? Okay, we got 13 adult females, breathing at a normal to elevated rate that's 0.
25 liters of oxygen per minute per victim.
He's a doctor? - A State Bureau of Mines.
Minds? - Mines.
Officer Tilghman, could I parlay with you for a moment? - Barksdale, right? - Yeah.
Listen, I want to know if you can help me- - No.
Pardon me? - I said, no, motherfucker.
Off the steps.
What the fuck are you up to now? You're deep into somebody's shit, McNulty.
I can tell.
This is bullshit.
Those computations were checked and confirmed by the medical examiner's office.
They're accurate for time of death to within a three-hour window.
Yeah, so you say.
Your man in the Marine Unit did the measurements on the container.
I happen to know my man in the Marine Unit intimately and he's, without a doubt, the most swollen asshole in American law enforcement.
I am not eating 13 murders.
No, sir.
If they were already dead when the container hit the dock then they were murdered on board ship.
That means Baltimore County or Anne Arundel on the other side of the bridge and if they're further down the bay, then you fellows with the Coast Guard can take it.
This is not a city problem.
Talk amongst yourselves.
One of you is taking this case home tonight.
No, Bill.
The Atlantic Light passed the Key Bridge at 2300 hours and laid up at anchor, until 0600 hours, when it docked.
By the map, that's Baltimore city.
And that put the ship in your jurisdiction for the three-hour window for the time of death.
Bill, you look like you could use a good cup of coffee.
Mikey.
What's up? - No.
No, what? No way, you little rat-faced piece of shit.
You fucked up the last two packages I gave you.
Mikey, look man, that wasn't me.
You got money, Zig, you can buy a little weight.
You got no money, go fuck yourself.
Mike, I thought we was friends.
Did you fuck up the last two packages? - Sort of.
Are you beat to shit? - No.
Take a walk, my friend.
What's up, man? - What's up, playboy? That thing in Atlanta, settled for now.
So we got that, you know.
Good.
I ain't call you down for that, man.
Called you down here 'cause we got a CO in here with some bullshit.
Who? - Name is Tilghman.
He kin to that boy that Wee-Bey dusted down over in that school lot.
He can't let go of that shit, neither.
Tilghman? Right.
Listen, Brianna reminded me, man.
We got promises we got to keep.
I know, I heard.
You need to get with Dee's girl.
Have her bring that young one down here regular.
She need to step up and do her fucking part.
All right.
How's Dee taking it? I mean, he gonna do what need to be done, man.
You know what I'm saying? Dee need a little help every now and again.
You're not out of reach or nothing like that, right? - No, nothing like that.
You sure? - He's carrying a lot of weight for us, man.
Stringer, he's family, man.
All right? He's family.
Come on, Jimmy.
Take it to the head, baby.
Come on.
Tell her you were first in line.
That's it.
There it is.
One more, baby, come on.
There you go.
That's enough.
No.
You gotta do all 14 of them bad boys one for every member of the dear family you gave to Cole.
Here's to Ray Cole, a fine detective, and a goodly man.
Jimmy, the look on Jay Landsman's face.
He nearly fucking cried.
And Rawls! Rawls, I swear to God, the man stayed in his office all day.
All afternoon.
He just stayed there with the door closed.
Careful, you're giving me an erection.
Come on now.
Motherfucker, you have outdone yourself this time.
You ain't never coming back from this, you know that.
Lester, what the fuck can they do to me they haven't done? I'm riding the goddamn boat.
Fuck it, I don't give a shit.
Here's to Jane Doe 13.
All right.
Eleven more years of whatever bullshit they throw at me.
I'm gonna put in my papers, take the pension and walk.
Eleven's a long time to be on the shelf.
Tell me about it, Mr.
13 years.
And four months.
Fuck it.
Chew you up, they gotta spit you back out.
Fourteen.
He did it.
Fuck.
Easy, motherfucker, I ain't picking up that shit.
Go that way.
Man, anybody still in there? - They're keeping La-la.
He had an old warrant on him.
For what? - I don't know.
Some traffic shit, man.
The bondsman's inside, trying to get it all figured out.
Man, what the fuck was this all about anyway? - Jerking us around on the way to work.
It's a beef I got with a police boss.
Charlie Valchek's little pissant brother.
You gotta get that taken care of, man.
I mean, this shit is out of hand.
I'm gonna take care of it.
Yeah, y'all need a lift? - I'll see you.
All right, talk to you.
That runt wants a war, he's got one.
Not supposed to be talking anyway.
Bunk, Lester.
Yeah.
You two winners are on the Jane Does.
What? We're not up, Jay.
We caught that double in Pimlico last week.
Cole's gonna take the double.
You two got pussy in a can.
Jay, that ain't right.
You know what ain't right? Our squad has a negative clearance rate for the year.
A negative rate.
Now, I'm not saying Ray Cole isn't a good detective.
But I need those 14 cases to go black so I got my best people on it.
Ray.
Lay it on them.
Name and number of the port cop who processed the scene.
And the best of luck to you in all your future endeavors, Detectives.
Motherfucker.
Beatrice Russell.
She pretty at least? Last night, you're too drunk to fuck.
Today, you're too hung over.
What's the most useless thing on a woman? - What? - A drunken Irishman.
But you're not really Irish, are you? I had 14 shots of Jameson.
How's that for green? You're green, all right.
You're also an idiot.
Who does 14 shots? You're a child, McNulty.
Show up at my door at 2:00 a.
m.
again without invitation - I will call the cops.
Why would you wanna do that? Jimmy.
Am I your girlfriend? No.
Your wife? No.
Your soul mate? No.
What the fuck am I, Jimmy? We're good together.
Answer the question.
I've been pretty honest with you.
My wife wants to put it back together again, I'm gonna go for it, right? You know, what with the kids and all You got any aspirin? For Christ's sake, Ronnie, I'm dying in here.
A real police department would have an elevator.
So you Russell? Bunk Moreland.
Lester Freamon.
I'm still on hold with the Coast Guard, Delaware River Detachment.
What do we know? Atlantic Light is in Philly, heading for Port of Elizabeth tonight.
I'm trying to get them to hold her.
Anyone from your CID working this? Nope.
I heard there's a big argument over jurisdiction and your colonel made everybody mad.
All you get is me.
Still on hold? We can call this in from the road.
You're with City Homicide? - You must know Jimmy McNulty.
Yeah, he's dead to us.
Gentlemen, make yourselves at home.
I've seen worse.
It's leased by the Highway Authority, but we can use it for an off-site.
Furnace work? - It does.
And the phone lines.
You'll need window units if you're here come summer but somehow I got a feeling that you gents will put together a case quicker than that.
Now, this here is my district investigator, Roland Pryzbylewski.
Kid's a prodigy.
Anything you need from me, you go to him.
Gentlemen, the target is Frank Sobotka and anyone Frank Sobotka does his dirt with.
Roland will fill you in on the details.
Good hunting.
So who signs the overtime slips? Son of a bitch.
You are a fucking thief, aren't you? - This is where our taxes go.
I do good work, don't I? Let's get it on the fucking can now.
Horseface, you son of a bitch.
Christ, I'm gonna bust the only nut I got left.
Ain't no heavier than the pallets we usually handle.
Finishing touch, boys.
Bon voyage.
There she goes.
This area's restricted.
Yes, sir, no problem.
Amir, why don't we sail? - They're holding the ship.
Who? - Coast Guard, the Americans.
Why? Fuck, Sergei, you almost break my hand.
Bring him up! - Have a good day, Officer.
Okay, I'll see you.
Now get up in there.
Last call before lock-down.
Make it snappy now.
How you like that? - It's good, baby, it's beautiful.
Nice.
Smooth.
Most def, man.
Man, watch your back, be good, baby.
What up, man? - Yeah, he left that in here.
It's his.
So how you doing? - All right.
Yeah? Me and you gonna need to talk.
So who's on board? - Thirty-eight in the crew, 14 are Yemeni.
Eight are Sri Lankan.
There are five Filipinos and the rest are from here, there, and back again.
Anybody speak English? - What you're asking them about I'll be amazed if any of them manages a word.
Where's your captain? - At the Coast Guard office.
Angry as hell because we're due on a New Jersey pier tomorrow morning.
You ain't gonna make it.
I gotta tell you, every day that you hold us costs the shipping agent $100,000.
The Atlantic Light is a huge enterprise.
The Atlantic Light is a crime scene.
Don't try to play tough guy.
I'm not the one getting my ass kicked.
Talk to me! Tell me what I need to know.
Get him up.
Talk about the girls.
No girls, nothing.
No English.
You no speak English, but you know how to run? Why you run from ship? What the fuck that suppose to mean? They got him in Philadelphia.
He jumped when he found out the Coast Guard was gonna hold the ship.
What is he? - Sergei says he looks like an Arab.
He don't know nothing.
But you kept hitting him anyway.
Get his clothes.
If you don't mind, I'm gonna have one.
Come on, let's talk.
No English.
Tell me what happened to the girls? No speak.
What then? What do you speak? Come on, talk to me, friend.
Turkish? You got that little hook on your nose.
Don't worry, patrioti.
I got nothing against the Turks.
That's the old world.
This is the new.
Sam.
I don't know nothing about- - You know.
And you're going to tell me about it, too.
After that you're done, I give you my word.
We popped the can to let them take a bath.
Get some fresh air.
You gotta understand, my crew, they pulling on their pootsos for weeks.
These girls, they looked pretty good.
Katalavenis? - Yes.
The men had cash to spend.
I admit it, I saw chance for business, but that was all.
What happened? One of the puttanas decided she didn't want to be a puttana no more.
This one guy got rough with her.
The whore died.
The other ones saw.
I didn't know what to do.
You kill one, then you kill them all.
No, that was another man.
Another man, what man? The one girl they saw, they knew.
Relax.
I gave you my word.
Watch your shoes.
Goddamn Turko.
Bleeds like a lamb.
In a year, each whore would bring a quarter million.
What is it? $4 million.
Gone.
Malaka.
Anyway, there will be other girls.
This one no fingerprints.
No face.
That's not a problem.

Yo, J, what up, son, where you been? I ain't been nowhere, T.
Just laying low, man.
Now watch, you gonna see Darnell's little brother come on out with that laundry basket.
And the take's in the basket? - Once in the afternoon, and one at night.
Always the same laundry basket.
How you know? That money got to come out somehow, man.
So, we ain't got to blast our way to the top floor.
We just wait till they're in the street with their shit.
We gonna do them tonight, you heard? After it get dark.
Just like you say.
Put the basket down now, put it down! - Fuck, I said put the basket down! - Easy girl, chill.
You all niggers, you got caught slipping.
Sorry it had to go down like this, baby, because your ass is cute.
But you got got.
Nice, very nice.
Bitches! Now, that's something you don't see every day.
No English.
Kunta Kinte yabba dabba dabba doo.
Mishy gishy gushy gushy mishy meshy mushy, motherfucker.
Negro, you cannot travel halfway around the world and not speak any motherfucking English.
English, motherfucker! Two missing, and the rest ain't saying shit we can understand.
I tried to tell you, with the questions you all are asking.
We step off ship, English is once again heard, right? Pretty much, yeah.
Here's what's left of Osman.
He was with us since Trieste.
Choksey took all his gear when he jumped.
You get a lot of guys jumping ship? - Some.
Usually after a pay, which we made in Norfolk.
Choksey actually asked for an advance, which we did using ship's scrip.
Nothing here in the way of ID papers or money.
He grabbed that at least.
Anybody else ask for any advances while you were at sea? - More than usual.
Yeah? A few of them were coming back day after day, scripting more and more cash.
We figured they were gambling down in the holds.
And maybe not, right? The can with the girls was in Bay 9 on the bottom, outside.
Did you check that bay? - I did.
It's full of cans for export, loaded in Hampton Roads.
No sign of anything except a fresh stack of containers.
I'm not gonna lie to you.
If you hold us another day and bring in interpreters they're still not gonna say a thing.
The unwritten rule is that what happens below decks stays below decks.
Sit up, Nicky, we got paying customers waiting.
Ashley, sit down.
You think I cut it too short? Just don't make me look funny.
Ashley's preschool called.
They want more money? - Just what we owe them.
And her teacher says that- - Teacher? - They ain't nothing but baby-sitters.
Whatever.
Ashley's been talking in class about how Mom and Dad don't live together.
Who asks her about that? No one asks, she just talks.
Kids notice stuff like that.
They talk, you know? By the time she's in elementary school, it's going to be an issue.
Time she gets that far, we'll be under the same roof.
You said that last Christmas.
Christ, Aimee! You pulling it out or cutting it? Listen, Nicky.
You want to go get to someplace better, I'm with you.
You wanna keep on like this, then I got to rethink stuff.
Do what you feel.
As soon as I start getting more hours, the first thing I do is get my own place.
You wanna move in with me, great.
You don't want to, at least I did my goddamn best.
You want a streak or something? I could put a little purple in it.
Yeah, and right after that I'll just go ahead and stick my tongue up some guy's ass.
Got you good, huh? You think? No, I mean, not really.
Not if Evidence Control is the posting you want.
Sorry, Lieutenant.
Fuck it, right? We brought in the case at least.
Heard you were on the boat.
Ain't so bad.
How's Kima? She's inside.
Asset Forfeiture.
And she's second year pre-law.
Housecat.
That ain't her.
This coming back? - Yeah.
It's the Gant case right there.
Nathan looked over our weak shit told me to go find Omar this week or she drops charges.
You got a line on him lately? - I haven't a clue.
Last thing I did was put him on a bus to New York.
You keep your head low, Lieutenant.
A year or two, you'll be back in their favor, right? Year or two, and I'll be a lawyer.
I got 22 years in.
I'm putting the papers in this week.
You're gone? What the hell am I doing down here with a law degree, right? You take care, McNulty.
You, too.
Kimmy, all I'm trying to say is, if you'd stop lighting up all the damn time - maybe you'd understand- - I'm gonna light up regardless.
It took us too long.
You know I love you, but if your ass don't get to finishing counting all my motherfucking money - Shit, you know I love you, but damn.
Almost five.
We got them motherfuckers good.
Let's see them motherfuckers slip next time.
Who the fuck is you? - Omar come a-calling.
Omar? Shit.
Ain't that nigger dead? I heard them project niggers lit him up.
No, I heard they ran his ass up out of this town.
Spread the word, darling, Omar back.
Look at the way Crutchfield spelled "prostrate.
" Look at it.
"The above referenced victim was prostate on the floor.
" "Prostate on the floor.
" That's a victim, all right.
That hurts bad.
I love this job, I do.
You want to hear about Philly, Sarge? - Just the dirty parts.
The ship's a dead end.
The cargo bay that held our container is full of new boxes, nothing to recover there.
And all them sailors, they lied to us in every language past English.
Gibbering motherfuckers.
Sailing up the coast right now, laughing at us.
Is that it? Two guys jumped ship.
We'll put out teletypes in case that has anything to do with anything.
One of them left his gear, and we kept that.
Sounds like some weak-ass shit to me.
Because it is.
But your suspect had to be on the boat, right? And your boat has sailed.
Jay, what the fuck were we supposed to do? Hold the ship while we chat up a crew of 40 in 53 dialects? Come on.
If that isn't the plan, what is? - Officer - Russell.
I am informed that you are detailed to this case as a liaison with the port police.
I also understand that you are the only help that your department is sending.
That so? Although there is some small charm to a woman in uniform the fact remains we work plainclothes in Homicide.
Which is not to say that the clothes need be plain.
For you, I would suggest some pantsuits, perhaps muted in color.
Something to offset Det.
Moreland's pinstriped lawyerly affectations and the brash, tweedy impertinence of Det.
Freamon.
Rawls is watching on this one.
Let's at least pretend we got a fucking clue.
Tweedy impertinence? - I like that.
You know what I'm saying? - It's not here, Major.
I can see that.
Where is it? The Flex Squad used it last Tuesday.
The vehicle log says they parked it at 22:00 hours returning the keys to the OIC.
And? - We have the keys.
But not the van? Are you telling me that a fully equipped $120,000 surveillance van assigned to the southeastern district cannot be located? - Around the world - In 880 days.
Do we have a plan? - A plan? - For targeting this guy, Sobotka.
I don't know.
Maybe find out where his union hangs go down there with a CI or two, make some hand-to-hands.
How about some DNRs on his phones? - DNRs? See who he's calling, and look for any kind of pattern.
Hand-to-hands for now, I think.
That's right.
This is too nice a block for a prison guard.
Shit, you couldn't pay me enough to work in no prison, man.
Yeah, right, no.
I want you to drop all the cellular joints.
Yeah, all of them, Nokia, Motorola.
Listen to Stringer play Wall Street.
All right, so call me, yeah.
String, why you so down on the phone companies, man? While back, I took a stroll through the Pit.
I saw that kid we got running things down there, Poot.
He got the cell phone I gave him for the business, right there on his hip but the nigger got another cell phone that only ring when the pussy called.
Now, if this no-count nigger got two cell phones how the fuck you gonna sell any more of them motherfuckers? That's market saturation.
Look here.
That Tilghman right there.
Dressed like a prison guard and all.
Yeah, I see him.
Steel door.
The boy on the step is all, though.
Stump is sitting in the front room window, staring at the damn television.
You all could see that from the step? - There in his damn drawers.
Shut up, dog! Rat make that trash, he home free.
Junk better get in closer if he want a shot at him.
I got $20 on Mr.
Rat.
Anyone fade me? Move along.
Come on, get there.
$100 says it ain't over.
Shit, I got to take easy money.
What the fuck? - Motherfucker.
Sounds about over now, though.
How the hell you know what the rat gonna do? Junk do know his varmints.
Yeah.
What's wrong with you, boy? Look, I done told you before, man.
Those two babies don't move me that way.
If I come up with a plan to do Stump without them you cut them loose? Now you gone and got strategic on me? We do like last time, and wait for him to come out.
Only problem is, Stump live in that rat hole, baby.
So, he ain't got to bring the cash out.
See what I'm saying? Then we charge in, guns a-blazing.
Steel door, right? What's it gonna take for you to be convinced, man? I don't bag no babies.
What you think? You gonna have to do better than that.
Indeed.
Thinking, maybe do a quarter this time, if it's not too much.
That a problem? No.
I'm just saying, you back right quick with it.
It ain't like them motherfuckers got anything else to do up in there, right? - The shit is everyday, man.
Sounds right.
It count right, too? Boy'll bring it to you outside.
There's Tilghman.
So, his shit coming from Butchie then? - All right.
Lying Butchie.
Santa's elves are short.
Santa's elves aren't real.
The elves in Lord of the Rings are, like, real elves.
Real elves? - They should be short, then.
Dwarves are short, hobbits are short.
Elves are tall and immortal.
If you weren't too scared to watch the movie then you'd know all about it, doofus.
Bite me, dickbreath.
Sean, knock it off.
He started it.
Okay, upstairs right away, brush your teeth, pajamas.
It's a school night, Sean.
Can I tuck them in? My lawyer's gonna be sending you something in the mail.
You're kidding.
It's not a divorce, it's an agreement.
A separation agreement.
A separation agreement? Just read it.
Okay? It's for the both of us.
It's to protect the both of us.
This is about what? It's just You should just read it, okay? Okay.
Another goddamn day we put our cards up and get nothing.
Zig, I don't know why I fucking bother.
Yeah, tell me about it.
One ship today, nothing yesterday.
Wait for Thursday, a couple ROIROs hit the berth and congratu-fucking-lations, you grab a day.
Friday's quiet again.
Look at it this way, you know, at least you get the day off.
Days off is the fucking point, Zig.
I can't keep waking up in the morning not knowing if I'm gonna get paid.
I got a kid, right? I got a fucking kid and a girl that wants to get married, for Christ's sake.
What the fuck you wanna get married for? Not saying I do.
But fuck if I even could, without no pot to piss in.
Aimee is like, "What's the plan," you know? And I'm down here wondering if I'm gonna get a day or two.
Aimee's sister broke up with Petie, right? That's your problem, Zig, one of them, anyway.
You let that thing of yours lead you around.
You know me, whiskey, cock, and 5:00.
Just get off me.
Nicky, look.
If it's money that you're worried about, shit.
Let's pool a few dollars together.
I'll get us hooked up with a little llello, you know turn it around this morning, we make more money before lunch than we can down here all week.
I ain't standing out on no corner like some fucking project nigger so that I get popped for pocket change.
Fuck that shit, Zig.
Seriously.
What are you gonna do? - I'll think of something.
We're looking for Can't be, the numbers don't go that high.
You had to figure it'd be this way, the way the port works.
Yeah? Why have anything other than fake companies and addresses on the manifest if you're moving a can with contraband? And on the other end, too, right? You can work it back through customs, but chances are this box wasn't picked up anywhere near this Rue de Rivoli address in Le Havre, France.
Hell, there might not even be a Rue de Rivoli in that town.
A can full of dead girls, sent to nowhere from nowhere.
He been good business for me, though.
Yeah? Two, three quarters a week.
Mr.
Tilghman's money always right, always on time.
That's why we coming to you for the setup.
You the man to him.
I'm just saying.
I know, the money, and you know we gonna find a way to make that right.
But like I said, I'm not asking for myself.
Now I'm asking for my man.
Avon's call? - Wouldn't be here otherwise.
Avon is Avon.
Always.
He probably gonna roll past tomorrow.
That'll work.
You see what I'm saying, right? It makes no sense to bring the girls all this way and then kill them.
You go all that way to dump it on your boss, and now you're worrying yourself.
It's got me thinking is all.
It's a little late for that, McNulty.
What connects the one girl in the water with all the other ones in the can? - If you're right and she isn't local, then- - She's definitely not local.
The low level of mercury viscosity in the amalgam restorations says Eastern Europe.
If you say so.
Trust me, she's not from Dundalk.
Eastern Europe? Can you narrow it down some? How's this? Three of the dead girls were in Budapest, Hungary sometime last year.
How'd you know that? They bought tits there.
Three of the girls had breast enhancements.
We looked at the bags during the post.
We pulled the lot and serial numbers and they trace back to an outpatient plastic surgery clinic in Budapest.
Would you call them? Might pull an ID from patient records.
The best they could tell me is the implants were used some time this fall.
Three girls, three surgeries, same clinic, right? - What else? - What else? - Fuck you, Jimmy McNulty.
Okay, you're a fucking god.
There's no one in the game who can stand in your light, Dr.
Frazier, sir.
You have to admit that whole Budapest thing was a hell of a pull.
Where's the paperwork on this cat? - I got it over here.
So go on, what else? Not much, except the swabs show that at least seven of the girls in the box had vaginal intercourse within 24 hours of death.
Two had anal and six came back positive on the oral.
You tell Cole about all this? I sent the findings off to Homicide, but Cole ain't on the case, brother.
No, who is? - It's your man, Bunk.
And that older guy, his partner, they ate it.
Thanks.
I told you, I brought you a soda.
That better? Now, look at me.
Don't let those mean boys see you crying.
Okay? - Okay.
I'll take care of you.
Mr.
Stump! Them boys been teasing Chantelle again.
You know it.
Morning.
Morning.
Bobby, how you been? - Not bad.
Working the tier today? - Yeah, on J.
Have a good one.
Yeah, you, too.
You happy now, bitch? How was I gonna know Landsman would pull Cole and stick you guys? You right here with them? - What did he call Cole? - "Collateral damage.
" I'm feeling pretty damn collateral myself, I got to say.
Which is why I went to see Dr.
Frazier and work some things out in my head.
Officer McNulty could've paid this thing no mind, but no.
When his friends are suffering, he bleeds, too.
Did you see the preliminary? Positives for oral, vaginal, anal.
No IDs, no passports, no visas, no real money.
And they're coming across the water like that.
Yeah.
McNulty has a theory.
Does he now? - You deductive motherfucker, you.
So he's gonna wander in here with some Johnny-come-lately bullshit about how these girls are all coming over here as prostitutes talking about how if they ain't got the cash to travel better than a container ship then they sure don't have the money for a plastic surgeon.
Then he's gonna say something about that one in the water being tossed off the ship after she's already dead from a beat-down.
But why she got beat? He's gonna ask us that, like we don't know.
He's gonna answer his own question, saying her swabs are negative, right? Fuck or fight with all them sailor boys, and she fought.
So, it got a little rough.
She gets banged around, she comes up dead.
And then somebody panics, tosses her in the harbor overnight before the ship ties up.
But the other girls saw.
So now, the other girls, they get told to get back in that can.
And our man, to cover this shit up he gets up on top and bangs down the air pipe.
Anything else you want to tell us? - When did you guys get there? Yesterday, when the ship's first mate told us that while the ship was at sea half the crew came to him for advances on their salary.
They had one hell of a dice game going on below deck or the boys popped them girls out of that can.
You talk to the crew? - In what language? - Crime scene? - Nope.
Anybody missing? Two guys jumped ship.
One in Philly, one in Norfolk.
But that shit happens all the time, apparently.
Got yourself a hell of a case.
Fuck you very much.
You know what happens to all the girls if you don't ID them? Anatomy Board as medical cadavers.
Then a crematorium.
Then that mass grave out at Crownsville.
That bothers you? Yeah, a little.
Me, too.
Thanks for hosting this, Father.
Hope it helps.
You guys have really done the background on this.
This is more presence than the port unions have shown in years.
Is the governor listening? - It's now or never for us.
And not just the grain pier, but with the dredging.
I don't care what the Corps of Engineers' study says.
The fact remains- - Excuse me, Bobby.
I just need him to work the other side of the room on something.
You're wasting time here.
Bobby's District 7, which is middle river which means every vote he gets is somebody with some port connection.
He's a good vote, no matter what we do.
The guys you need to be working are the guys who wouldn't have come if we hadn't been throwing money at them.
Like who? - Like John Carney, from Anne Arundel.
Liz Tobin, from Montgomery.
Clay Davis, from over Westside.
Keep hold of them, some of your stuff stays in the budgets.
And they're with us? - Carney is pretty firm.
Liz will stay solid if the environmentalists don't get to her.
Clay Davis that guy, you wanna make sure you're the last man out of the room.
What do you mean? I mean, we've given forty large to the Westside Democratic Organization and this motherfucker still has his hand out.
We spent $40,000 on that guy? Worth it, if he lets your projects sail through the conference committee.
Forty fuckin' thousand? - Am I your lobbyist? Are you paying me? Trust me.
With the players in this room the presiding officers and a little help from the governor's office we might squeeze some things out this session.
Now, go make nice.
Senator Davis.
Excuse me.
Hey, partner.
People tell me it just might be a good year for the port.
Might be.
You all have been stepping up in a lot of ways.
Hope it continues like that.
You all making friends in a lot of places? We're friendly guys.
So they came back murders? I admit, I didn't see that coming at all.
Who could've seen that? For whoever was having these girls brought over - the net loss is in the millions.
That much? One of these girls on the circuit, going club-to-club on the East Coast can bring in half a million over the next two years.
And that's just for club work and prostitution.
So somebody messed up.
In a big way.
You guys called it.
No such address in Le Havre.
Or for that matter, anywhere in Brittany.
The name and ID of the driver who signed the bill of lading doesn't correspond to their motor vehicle database.
Dead ends either way.
The girls, they know what they're coming over for? Some do.
Some get told they're gonna dance, or be secretaries.
You gotta understand, they're coming from places that don't have much.
Romania, Moldavia, Russia, Albania.
women working in the US alone.
They need a whole new agency just to police them.
What they need is a union.
To Stan and Kate.
Stan and Kate.
Happy anniversary! Thanks a lot.
Good time here? - Yeah.
How is my detail coming? Lt.
Grayson is on top of things, right? Burrell recommended him.
Said he was really good at property crimes.
It's gonna take a while.
You think? Why? What are you doing? Not much.
We got no DNRs up.
We're not looking at any union assets.
We're not collecting tag numbers or anything.
We're not looking for patterns at all.
And that's the thing.
I'm trying to tell you about the Barksdale thing.
If you go in with the idea you're gonna eat around the edges you never get a meal.
With Barksdale, Daniels and Freamon had us pulling all kinds of stuff.
DMV records, phone logs, corporate charter stuff political campaign contributions.
If Burrell didn't break the case down so fast we would've brought back $3 or $4 million in downtown real estate not to mention the money those guys gave to political campaigns.
We were deep, really deep.
I've been trying to tell you.
If it wasn't for Burrell, that would've been a major case.
String.
You know, I just came to check up on you.
See how you holding it down.
I'm all right.
Where the little man at? - I just put him down.
You want something to drink? Do D'Angelo know what he's missing? I'm sure he do.
You just reminded me about something.
Tag's still on it.
He bought it before he got stopped in Jersey.
Never been worn.
You know, it's a shame to let things go to waste.
You know, you can give away the man's clothes but that don't make him gone, right? I ain't forget him.
You ain't been to see him much neither, though.
It's been hard.
It's been hard? It's been hard on him, too.
A lot of bad things caught up in a man's head when he's on lock-down.
Man need to see his baby mama.
Need to see his child, too.
Only one thing he needs to be secure about, and if not then he might start thinking he can't do that time and then we all got problems.
You understand me? How you set here? The apartment, the car, the money's all right? - It's good.
It's good? I know it's good.
But you know what I'm talking about, right? We all got a job to do, and your job is to let D'Angelo know we still family.
It's important.
I'm an XL.
No doubt.
Your round, Jimmy.
Jesus.
I'm gonna owe the baby-sitter half my salary if I don't throw myself out of here right now.
You got kids? - Two.
Daddy working late, too? - Not a day in his goddamn life.
You barely made a dent.
Good night, gents.
Good night.
Good night.
What's that about? - I don't know.
Tell you what I'm gonna do.
Solve the fucking case? - Not a shot.
I'm gonna give this one a name.
A name? She's not going out to Crownsville, this one.
Not on me, she's not.
So what are you gonna do with her? Pay for a box and a mortician and ship her back to Bumfuck, Europe? No, I'm gonna find where her people at.
How does that matter? You see, this is that Catholic shit, Jimmy.
This is that little altar-boy-guilt talking.
What the fuck I got to feel guilty about? Let me count the ways.
Good morning, Major.
What the Wilmington? Son of a bitch! - Frank? - Ring, how's it hanging? Not so good.
Not right now.
Yeah? I'm late on my dues.
You know that, right? You're late, yeah.
And I'm parking that piece-of-shit Buick two blocks from the house hoping for a lazy repo man.
That bad? I know you ain't been getting hours, it's been slow.
Five days last month.
That's all.
Is that all? Look, I got to shit or get off the pot here.
I'm gonna go with 47.
Do me a favor.
Frank, you been fair, I ain't saying otherwise.
It's just there's 60 checkers above me with more seniority, and that's all she wrote.
Do me a favor.
Go down Clement Street tonight give this to Dolores, tell her you need a beer and a shot on me.
Just do that much.
You have a round on me, you go home.
You wanna come in tomorrow, tell me you're going with 47, I'm with you on it.
Thanks.
Lane 4, you got a trucker's code and tag.
Pick me a winner, Johnny.
You're ugly enough to be a teamster.
Lick me, you whore.
It'll be up on wheels.
K-row, slot 122.
Roger that.
Look, misdelivery.
Can was supposed to go ashore at Norfolk.
Yeah, where you want it? - I'm gonna need it on wheels at K-122.
My man'll pick it up there.
Thanks, Horse.
Wrong box, misdelivery.
No need to count, Butch.
My shit always right.
Hearing.
Hearing is believing.
Boy'll meet you outside when you ready to roll.
I'm ready now.
No, dog.
Not from me you don't.
Later, Butchie.
Your man Avon ain't got no flex.
Afraid not.
Who you like better? Ultimate Spiderman or regular Spiderman? - What's the difference? - See, I'll have to teach you everything.
Excuse me, gents.
What's up, man? How you liking the library? It'll do.
It's easy on you.
I know a lot of people put in for the gig, but the gig go to you.
Funny how that go.
So you want me to say thanks? You ain't got to say shit.
But you need to take heed of what can be done for you if you keep your head straight.
You're just full of favors, ain't you? You shut your mouth and open your mind and you ain't gonna be doing but a small piece of this 20.
Just like I'm only gonna do a year or two on this seven.
Feel me? - I got priors.
Best I can do is half.
That's 10.
I can count to 10.
Some shit is coming down, Dee, okay? You need to think.
You need to trust, and you need to get your head right.
Man, my head is where I want it.
You look dusty lately.
So what? What, you my mom up in here now? That's the weak man's road you're taking.
I ain't never seen you as weak.
Look, I'm just, you know, every now and again.
That's all I got to get my head up out of this shithole.
Ain't no more than that? Because if that's all it is you should be able to give it a rest for a few days.
Because it ain't no thing, right? - Yeah, it ain't no thing.
Then you gonna do that? I'm asking you, man, out of love.
There's always love, Dee.
All right.
Yeah.
A few days.
Sure, a few days.
Right.
All right, what have you got? All digital.
Four megapix, That's brand new on the market.
That's the Cadillac of cameras right there.
How many? -400.
You are talking a big number.
That's showtime.
This ain't the WNBA.
I'm thinking with these features, this brand I can get, maybe, $350 each at retail.
All right, cool.
Nope, not cool.
$500.
Yeah, I've been calling some of the local chain stores.
You know, Best Buy, Circuit City.
This model goes for $550, $500 when they're on sale.
Okay, $500.
Times 400 units, that comes to- - That's $200,000.
What are you looking for? Twenty percent.
There's three of us.
I want a woman with thin ankles.
But I'm going to go home tonight, and there's going to be my wife.
Eight percent.
$16,000.
That's over $5,000 apiece for you and your friends.
$20,000.
Upfront.
Because I like you.
Look at that.
It's a Kodak moment in the house.
I got to run this by my people.
They okay it, I'm going to give you a call.
All right, cool.
Did you see that? - Yeah.
You gonna insult my ace, you check-and-raise piece of shit? - Fuck you, Augie, see it or fold.
I'll see it and raise you back.
Talk to me, Augie.
Ten-hut.
Where's the lieutenant? He's on the street.
I'm not a politician.
I wouldn't even know how to count votes.
Maybe they know it's our time.
Tony.
Too soon to call you Commissioner? Excuse me one sec.
You sent me humps.
Major? You sent me a detail of humps, Ervin.
We can discuss this tomorrow.
No, I think we discuss it now or I'm gonna walk in there and tell Santoni to vote against this goddamn coronation.
And more than that, I'm gonna talk some shit to some of my friends about what happened at the end of the Barksdale case.
You hear me on that? The Barksdale case was a successful prosecution.
Up until our people tried to chase the cash, maybe.
We have a quorum, I believe.
Council members can take their seats now.
Tell you what, Deputy.
You probably still got enough votes but I can make it uglier than you want it.
What do you want, Stan? I want a real detail, with real police and a real unit commander.
Fine, done.
Give me that black lieutenant that did Barksdale.
Daniels put in his papers.
He's gone, out the door.
Did he meet the pension board yet? I suggest you talk to the man.
I'll do what I can.
Don't fuck with me, Erv.
I got as many friends here in the hall as you do.
And with what I'm learning about the Barksdale case I got all kinds of shit I can throw.
Lock-down in What's up, Ice? - You done with that Green Lantern? - You can read it, but I want it back.
You hit Dee? - Dee ain't up.
Four hundred good cameras, Spiros.
Who brought them in? The young stevedore, Niko, and that idiot cousin of his.
And I think he uses, too.
Stefanos.
I don't give a damn nothing about him.
Listen, I'm paying 10 cents on the dollar for the cameras.
We're going to clear $180,000.
What about Niko? - He's smart.
Make the deal.
What the hell's wrong with you tonight? - What? - You're acting normal.
You know what, Dolores? I made money today.
Yeah? What ship was in? Hey, Zig.
Shot and a beer, Dolores.
Frank Sobotka says I needed it.
Thanks.
What's this? - Your change.
Or so says Frank Sobotka.
Sure? - It ain't mine, for Christ's sake.
If you don't take it, someone else is gonna.
Your pop's a good man, Zig.
Yo, up here! T.
C.
, what's up? What's going on? - They falling out, four that I seen.
What? What the fuck is going on? Bad package.
Hot shots.

What's up? Great view.
Harbor, I mean.
It's fucking picturesque, is what it is.
Every morning I ask myself, "Is today the day I drive down "to Fort Armistead, stare out at the harbor?" No, I figure eventually, if I mind my own business Uncle Frank will wake my ass up at 7:00 in the morning tell me to get my ass down there for some mysterious fucking reason.
Good anchorage, good cranes good railroads, close to I-95.
Lot of people ready to work, right? That's my fucking town.
Except, the thing is, we're another 110 miles for any ship coming up from Hampton Roads.
An extra day.
So why come? Unless you know your cargo's gonna move fast and clean through the port.
Why offload in Baltimore, except that a Baltimore gang can turn your ship around faster than any other port and will make sure your cargo all your cargo, gets where it needs to go faster than anywhere else.
Like you guys never stole nothing back in the day.
We ain't back in the day, Nicky.
When was the last time you saw trucks backed up for three miles outside Patapsco terminal? If it wasn't for the car-ships, we would be starving.
The cameras come back.
I'm serious.
They come back today, we tell the shipper we lost the can in the stacks.
They're gone.
We turned them over already.
To who? You know the Tasco line's a cunt hair away from taking their business down to Norfolk.
I don't need this shit right now.
I do, Uncle Frank, I need the money.
You ain't hearing me! - What? You think this shit is easy? You think it's fucking easy? You try living on five or six days a month.
See how fast it puts you on your ass.
I am on my ass, Uncle Frank.
You need money, you come to me.
Frankie Sobotka is Father fucking Christmas on the docks lately.
No doubt, his pockets are full.
You think it's for me? Is that what you think? It ain't about me, Nick! I know, I'm sorry.
You got Ziggy mixed up in this.
Jesus, Nick, what the fuck are you thinking? Me and Zig are gonna talk on this long and hard.
Come on, let's go to work.
How much? Twenty.
Three-way split.
Who's the inside man? You don't know? Fuck you then, I ain't no snitch.
Nobody should flash too much money.
You know that much, right? Yeah.
Toxicology's coming back positive for strychnine.
This was intentional? That's the ME's call, but I've seen street packages cut all the time with all kinds of chemicals.
You don't use too much, you give a weak package some kick.
People start thinking you're high-grade, when what you got is stepped-on trash with a little bit of rat poison mixed in.
Too much rat poison, you got people falling out, like we got.
Be nice to have a few answers for those reporters.
What do they wanna know? How it got in, what we're doing, the usual.
It got in like everything gets in.
If you can't win the war on drugs in a prison where the hell you gonna win it? I ask you.
Listen, if it were one or two dead, it would fade.
But five in one night, and eight more in the infirmary? We need to show the flag on this.
What I'm gonna need is for you all to wheel and deal.
What do you mean? If this case gets made from an informant and you're gonna have a couple dozen of them if you're ready to shave some years.
Colonel.
Jimmy.
Winona.
Gilligan, little buddy.
Don't you have a job? Ouch! I smell fresh police work.
Okay, be like that.
You got some paper from inside the can? A letter, couple of envelopes, some scraps of stuff? Yeah, everything's down in your evidence control.
You got the submission slips? - He does.
Lester.
You want to pull all of it? Hold it.
Before you start dancing with your Jane Doe I'm gonna need a little something from you on the Gant case.
I got a full set of llene Nathan's teeth marks on my hind parts.
No problem, I got you covered.
You found Omar? I never lost him, my friend.
He's got Omar? - Bullshit.
Who's Omar? My papers are in.
They are.
You want out, you're out.
But I'm offering to clean the slate here.
You and me.
Why? The council vote is next week, after which I'm upstairs.
Now, if I'm gonna give myself a chance to make my mark on this place, I'll need good people.
People you can trust.
And you ain't that? All right.
You're a snake.
But you seem to know your business.
I'm taking the bar exam in a month.
Why not put it off for a year or two leave the department with a major's pension? Scalise is gonna retire this summer.
You do me a good turn on this detail in southeast and you'll have that posting.
Why would you do that? I value you, Cedric.
You're arrogant and disloyal.
But maybe, given time, you'll find a way to shine.
What's the detail? - Drug case, probably.
My sense of it is that Stan Valchek has got some personal issues with somebody in one of the port unions.
He thinks they've got too much money.
And so, being Valchek, he gets a detail.
That it? Pretty thin.
I don't care if you make a case for Valchek or not.
I do care that the old Polack comes away from it feeling he got his money's worth.
Valchek asked for me by name, didn't he? You two are trading horses and you need me in the corral.
How about this? If I bring in the case you make the detail permanent as a major case unit within CID.
Fair enough.
Just keep Valchek stroked and make sure you bring in - a drug case or two.
One other thing.
A promotion and the promise of a specialized unit isn't enough? I choose my own people.
Fuck me once, shame on you.
Fuck me twice- - Make a list.
Give it to Rawls.
He'll pull who you want.
The shit do not make sense.
Some of them wasn't about nothing.
I mean, Tae? Lizard? If it was a hotshot they were after some real lightweight motherfucks.
Yo, Dee, you want any Silver Surfers? They tossing shit Tae had in his cell, man.
Whoever load that shit up didn't know what he was doing.
My boy down the infirmary say the shit was more rat poison than it was dope.
Fucking-A right.
Jane Doe, number five.
Five.
What's up, baby? Not here, put it away.
Shot and a beer, darling.
Kept one for yourself, did you? Them Japs, they make a nice little camera, they do.
You even got film in that bitch? - No, it's digital.
I know it's digital, so what? So, no film, look, there's a computer chip inside.
You take that off, you load the pictures onto the computer.
Thanks.
Ziggy.
Don't spread no cash around for a while, all right? Hell, no.
I might get a new clutch plate put in Princess is all.
Also, your father knows.
How does he know? Horse saw us, right? Fuck me, he told? How long has Horse been tight with your pop? Of course he told.
He's pissed, Zig.
He ain't happy.
What did you say? I told him we already turned the cameras around and after a while, he stopped yelling.
At you, maybe.
Anyway.
It's low profile for a while, all right? All right.
You take a picture on that, you don't have to take it to photomart - to get it turned around? - No, it goes on a computer.
I got to take a leak.
I go next, all right? Pretty boy.
Hey, there.
Christ, Ziggy.
Jimmy, just a scheduling thing.
Sean was invited to Mark Lohrman's birthday party on Saturday.
So you can pick him up there after 2:00.
I realize it's your weekend, but Sean would be upset if he missed it.
Okay? Great.
Omar by the end of the week, Jimmy.
Ilene is on the warpath.
Motherfucker, I am serious.
Mr.
McNulty, this is Dr.
Halpern's office.
You missed your six-month cleaning on Tuesday and we haven't heard from you.
Give us a call, please.
McNulty, this is your dear friend llene Nathan.
I indicted this piece-of-shit case because you swore to me we had an eyeball witness Drive time is 6:38 in the a.
m.
and we have reports of a - Go around, asshole.
What'd you call me? I'm sleeping on this side.
Because you got to get up, everybody does? Yup.
Wipe off the seat, Nick, I know you hit it.
If I could fart now, I would.
That's a surprise.
No chance for breakfast? No.
I'll stop by the bar.
No, you won't.
You ain't got time.
You got to run me past my ma's to pick up Ashley.
Shit, hurry up, then.
You know I got a ship to work today.
Your ma knows you got a ship, too.
Don't go upstairs.
Just head out the back.
I'll pick you up at the back of the alley, all right? Jesus, Nicky, we got a kid together.
What's the big deal we spend the night in your folks' basement? They're decent people.
We ain't got time.
I know.
So, why you grabbing? - They were staring right at me.
I'll meet you out back.
So how do you get the container off the ship, off the dock? I guess if you wanted to make sure your cargo isn't messed with, you'd want to get with one of the checkers.
Who are they? - Local 1514.
They monitor all the loading and offloading they match the manifests, they tally the cargo.
Nothing goes in or out without them putting it down somewhere.
Or not.
Or not.
So we need to talk to a checker.
What? Black, white, Polish, Irish, Italian, it doesn't matter.
No one talks to police.
How do you make a case then? I patrol.
I write traffic tickets.
If we got an open container, or a damaged container I take a report.
We got something stolen, I take another report.
Someone gets something dropped on him or gets run over by a front-end loader - I keep writing.
That's the job? How long you been on? - Two years.
What did you do before that? I took tolls from people at the Fort McHenry tunnel.
Which, I'm happy to say, wasn't nearly as much fun.
Made $22,500 and went home tired every night until I walked by the office bulletin board one night read the MDOT job posting.
Port Authority officers, Schedule one, starting at $33,000 with benefits.
Toll-taking days were over? Father of my two kids went to Houston in '99 hasn't so much as called in three years.
I wasn't gonna make it on $22,500.
Not with kids, I wasn't.
Did you want to be a police? - Could've been me the other night.
True.
Except for all of a sudden, you up and tell me to stop doing that.
Avon to the rescue.
How did you know? I figured you were gonna be bringing your ass in here to thank me for pulling you off of that shit.
Five dead.
More in the infirmary.
How did you know? - I did as your uncle should because I'm concerned about you fucking yourself up.
You knew.
Look, man, I ain't had nothing to do with it.
I might know who did, though.
You practically running this place.
Who else could it be? It ain't about what happened, you understand? It's about using what happened to our advantage.
Play or you gonna get played.
I need to know that you ain't do that shit.
That's what I need to know.
I already said it.
You ain't gonna believe it, fuck it.
You can tell yourself that I spiked it, but be grateful that you still standing.
Once you done with all that we can talk about how we start shaving some of these years off.
And not just for me, for you, too.
They looking for the motherfucker who brought that shit in here.
They need him to fall.
And you know what? I can give you a name.
I can give you the right name.
We can take that name down to the assistant warden and we can get some of our lives back.
You dig? So, stay close.
This play on the inside, this play on the outside we got it all covered.
I don't want no part of what you do no more.
You hear me? So you can just leave me the fuck out of that.
Whatever it is.
Anyone seen Omar? We're back in! Six ships in one day.
Ain't seen the terminal this busy in months.
Feels sweet.
Shit, look at this pretty bitch.
What the fuck are you wearing? - Italian leather, all right? In the middle of winter? On the goddamn docks? - How much does that shit cost? - $2,000.
For a goddamn jacket? Are you out your fucking mind, Zig? Fuck it.
$2,000 for a single goddamn jacket.
Jesus, Zig, you need therapy and shit.
I figured an African-American such as yourself would understand how a player such as myself needs to take heed in the latest fashion.
But apparently, you ain't got no fucking style neither.
I'm gonna walk, all right? - See you.
What? What did I tell you about not spreading no cash around? Jesus Christ, Nicky, it's a fucking coat.
I can tell people I'm paying for it on installments or whatever.
But you got to admit, I do look pretty today.
I do.
The Greeks wanna talk to us.
What about? We did good by them.
Yeah? But, for Christ sakes, Zig, keep your shit quiet before half the fucking waterfront's talking about us.
All right, no problem.
All right.
See you later.
See you.
Yo, quit it.
Gentlemen.
We don't need that now.
Say what? - I don't give a shit about drugs.
Littering pisses me off, though.
You can pick that up when I'm gone.
I'm looking for a stick-up boy, name of Omar.
Dark-skinned, thin guy with a scar right down his face.
You boys would definitely know him if you saw him because he's got a shotgun about yea-long.
He'll put it to your head and steal your shit without thinking twice.
Does anyone know where he hangs? Who he's running with? What he's driving? Fuck you, Officer.
The second package came even weaker than the last.
It won't take the cut like it did before.
Fucking Atlanta shit cost more and still not as good.
Came in at 25.
All we can do is sprinkle it and bag it.
And lose my money? I lose my money.
Step on that motherfucker.
How hard? Make it 10.
It's shit now.
I know.
So the container itself leads us nowhere.
Fake addresses on either end.
Which leaves us the port itself.
Because whatever went wrong on that ship was known to whoever was supposed to pick that container up.
Which is why it stays on the dock.
Bottom line is, we need to know more about cargo moving off that terminal.
How to do dirt.
And how to hide when you're doing dirt.
Bottom line for me is different.
Bottom line for me is, you guys should've held that ship.
For your crime scene, for your witnesses, for the whole damn case.
Sir, the witnesses- I don't care if they were speaking Mandarin Chinese with a cocksucker's lisp.
They needed to see the inside of an interrogation room.
They were the case.
We were in Philadelphia, with no real jurisdiction dealing with foreign nationals and no real probable cause.
I can only tell you what it looks like from where I sit.
And from here, the view is two of my detectives fucking the dog.
Thirteen homicides, 14, if we connect the floater, and all of them red.
So what can I tell you? If this case doesn't fall, we're all gonna be stepping on our dicks trying to explain what happened.
So, work it as you see fit but understand if I have to throw Burrell a scapegoat or two I got one to throw.
Fuck me.
What did you want to talk to us about? If you are able to do like you did, we have other things we can use.
Like what? Fact is, we shook things up down there snatching all them cameras.
It comes to expensive shit like that, we got to lay back for a while.
Stuff we need is not like that.
No? Acetone, sulfuric acid, potassium permanganate.
Chemicals? - It's like paint thinner, shit like that.
What do you need with those? Just go get them at the hardware store.
No.
We need much.
Metric tons.
Five or ten tons.
Check and you'll see, they make these things here.
Send them from here.
Tanks and tanks down at your docks.
Good money for those.
How much? How much chemical? Two tons? Four? - Eight? - I'll look into it.
Yo, Bubbles! McNulty.
My meanest man.
Get in the car.
Where you been at, brother? What did you get? Walkman.
You know how it works, Bubs.
You're going to pay taxes on this shit.
Taxation without representation, you know? I don't want much.
I need Omar.
Wild Omar? You want us to wander around town looking for a crazy motherfucker with a shotgun? Him and me go way back, it's a friendly thing.
If he's a friend, you can find the motherfucker without us.
No problem.
Show me the receipt for this shit, you're off the hook.
Here.
Keep it, part of my tax.
Your tax is Omar.
I need a line by Friday, Bubs.
Fuck! My client will provide accurate information as to the source of the tainted narcotics.
He can identify the method by which contraband is smuggled into this institution, as well as the people responsible.
Cellblock talk is cheap.
He'll give you what you need to make a case - if that's what you're interested in.
Your terms? Mr.
Barksdale is due for a first parole hearing at 28 months.
We'd like to trim that to a year and have your assurances of institutional support for work release and early parole.
One year on a seven-year bit? We are offering extraordinary cooperation in this matter.
Mr.
Barksdale's placing himself at risk by offering information implicating other prisoners and staff at MCl.
And I would only add that Mr.
Barksdale's extant conviction is his first.
He has no priors whatsoever.
It's my recollection that a city police got shot behind Mr.
Barksdale's business.
No, sir.
You don't remember that? I remember the officer got shot.
And I remember being upset about that, not only because the officer got shot but because I knew it meant there was gonna be more police on me.
I remember thinking, "Any time any fool do something like shoot a police "it's bad on everyone.
" I know that you know that my name ain't nowhere on what happened to your friend.
I think what we're asking is reasonable under the circumstances.
After all, until someone identifies the source of the tainted heroin you could have another five overdoses tomorrow.
Or the day after.
Consider the offer.
But the next time we talk an assistant attorney general has to be in the room.
Tuna surprise? Christ sakes, Ma, I climbed all over two ships today.
How about a meal for that kind of day? - Where's Pop? - He's at the bar with the horses.
Go tell him it's dinner.
We winning, Pop? - Nicko.
You up today? I was doing good, but this year Gulfstream is killing me.
Go easy.
That's my inheritance.
After 25 years, I'm still ahead almost $7,000.
You ought to let me take you up to Pimlico when it opens.
Try your system out for real.
Too tempting.
Just once.
Saw that the Cape Spruance is over at Point West.
Yeah, we offloaded her today.
You know we double-hulled her down at number four.
Maybe two years before the dry dock closed up.
She still floats? Of course she still floats.
You ever miss it, Pop? Wouldn't do no good.
What's for dinner? Tuna surprise.
You're loyal to your people.
I respect that, at least.
Don't worry, Lieutenant.
Burrell wants you on this detail, so I want you, too.
I need your approval for Freamon, Greggs, and Hauk.
They're all CID.
Correction.
You need my approval for everyone.
This may be Valchek's creation but the detail is investigative and comes under CID.
If they work for me, they need my okay.
Good news is, I got no problem with anyone on your list.
Except McNulty.
No McNulty.
Nothing that even resembles the son of a bitch.
That bad? - He quits or he drowns.
That's the only two things get him off the fucking boat, so help me God.
You even know what this detail's about, Lieutenant? Some kind of beef that Valchek has.
Two fucking Polacks pissing on each other's leg.
I heard.
Anything to get you out of the basement, Lieutenant? Girl.
No! Kima, who cares? We're gonna be there in five minutes and they'll still be dumbass frat boys.
You got to start thinking, what would a lawyer do? What would a lawyer say? Shakima Greggs, Esquire.
That's what I'm talking about.
Get your ass down, fool.
Fuck you, lady.
Ain't no lady.
Bitch, drive it or lose it.
Oh, my God, let's get out of here.
Only the finest breeds can perform this well, with this much heart and obedience.
Obedience that brings out the champion not only in show dogs Look at that tiger go.
A third generation champion from Glassport.
Even house pets that never knew they had the blood of champions in them.
To perform at this level an animal has to follow orders without question.
It is not instinct.
Come on upstairs.
All dogs have instinct.
Jesus Christ.
Nothing's on this side.
Most chemicals are over at the Fairfield terminals.
Who do we know at Fairfield? Ott's brother-in-law works there.
You might try and touch him.
What do they want with those for, anyway? Beats the fuck out of me.
Jesus, I'm sorry.
Fuck, man, shit.
I didn't see you standing there in all that sweet leather.
What the fuck is wrong with you? - Clumsy, I guess.
You can just go out and steal a whole can full of baby wipes and just clean yourself up.
You fucking goof.
Dick.
Shit, Lieutenant, I promised.
Think my woman's gonna give a great big cheer when she hears about it? - I was out the damn door.
You don't know Cheryl.
You don't know Marla.
If you want I could use you inside, like we did Prez last year.
If I hear the music, I'm gonna dance.
I'll tell your wife, if you tell mine.
In the car, but not out in the open.
Yo, Rock.
Be subtle with it, man.
You know what subtle means? - Laid back and shit.
Good tunes, Pop? - Yeah.
Thanks for the phones.
I don't know, Bubs.
I mean if you go rolling over rocks then you're gonna get bit by a snake, right? Got to pay that tax, Johnny.
You got to give a working police his due.
So, Bee's working for Lamar? - All of them work for Lamar.
He got that whole corner to hisself.
You saying the stash is across the street in the low-rises? In the second court.
They got it up in this one place that got the boarded-up windows.
How many doors down from the end? Three.
Yo, Pops.
Anyone got a line on that wild boy who likes to pop the shotty? - Omar? - Yeah, I need Omar.
What do you want with Omar? Just want a word with him.
Just a word.
You want to get with Omar you need to stand out on one of them corners with a big-ass package.
You be talking to that nigger soon enough.
You feel anything? Let's go.
Come on.
As agreed, the price of cooperation is an agreement by the state parole officials to move Mr.
Barksdale's first parole hearing forward by 12 months and to credit him in the file with cooperation in this matter.
You can't make a case on just some con's say so.
We need the dope on the table.
Of course you do.
If, before the end of business today, you effect a search of Correctional Officer Tilghman's vehicle, locker, and person we are confident sufficient evidence will be recovered.
"We are confident"? As far as D.
O.
C.
is concerned, this is a fair deal if it takes the overdoses off our plate.
But if we come up empty on this You won't.
Five will get you ten that's the motherfucker that spiked the packages.
You have proof of this? Then we make the case that's there for us to make.
Jesus, Mary, and Joseph.
New Orleans.
Lieutenant.
Welcome to the southeast.
Major, I understand you asked for me.
My son-in-law can't say enough in your favor.
And, of course, you did him a good turn last year, right? - You want to tell me about this target? - Frank Sobotka.
A union man down at the port.
The motherfucker's showing a lot of money.
My gut says a drug connection.
I can also tell you for a fact that his people will up and steal anything that isn't nailed down.
You seen the off-site? - Not yet.
I told my people to meet up here, at the district.
Pretty good digs.
Come on, I'll show you.
It's from a young woman to her mother or at least an older woman.
She mention any names? There is an Anya here.
And from the way she writes, I'm guessing it is a child.
It's almost ready, Father.
Excuse me.
So who's she writing to? - There is no name.
The letter is for the whole family.
But she signs, "Nadya.
" Her name is Nadya.
Nadya.
Is she in trouble? She's dead.
Anything in the letter to indicate as to where these people live? If you had an envelope, I could The only thing specific she mentions, is a church St.
Volodymyr, or St.
Vladimir, and a priest.
Father Vasyl, it says.
There's no names or places or Across the water, Father Vasyl is a common name and there are many St.
Volodymyrs.
But leave the letter.
I will try.
Thank you.
I'm saying, if there isn't enough work, then you could do something else, that's all.
There's enough work.
Fact is, I came into some back pay I was owed from about a month ago.
A couple thousand from the vacation fund.
Stop, Ash.
I was thinking maybe this'll be the time for us to get a place.
You could cover that? And maybe we don't rent.
Maybe we try and buy something in the neighborhood.
Nothing too big, just I heard Aunt Treesey's old place up in Covington has been fixed up real nice.
Like with wood floors and all.
Ash, what's that ship right there? - Cable ship.
And what's the gray one next to it? Military Sealift.
Attagirl.
You cold? - Dwight? - What's up? We're gonna have to search your vehicle.
Sorry.
Search? What the fuck? Open it, or I'm gonna shim the lock, maybe damage your ride.
You got no call to be doing me like this.
No call and no damn warrant.
You drive onto a D.
O.
C.
facility you acknowledge the vehicle's subject to search.
Where's the key, Dwight? He's gonna be back from lunch any minute, Zig.
You hear me? He sees you on that thing he's gonna break you down and sell you for parts.
Here it be.
You all planted that shit.
You fucking know you did.
What's with the whistle squad? - It's for us.
They marked us the moment we stepped out of the car.
That's him.
That's Horseface? - How did he get the name? - You need a close-up? Thomas Pakusa.
We need to talk to you about something.
What? You were working the Atlantic Light when it docked, right? If you say so.
You remember that container that came off that day? - With all the dead girls.
No.
You don't remember all them dead girls in a can? Come on, Horse.
I remember when you found them all in the stacks.
I don't remember they came off the Atlantic Light.
Let's take a ride downtown, clear this mess up.
No.
Get the fuck in the car.
Am I locked up? - Get in the damn car.
You want me in that car, you need to lock me up.
If that's the way it'll be, I wanna talk to my shop steward and he can have an IBS lawyer go with me.
Dad, what- Jesus, Pop, what's that for? Say cheese.
You pull another stunt like that, Zig, I'll have your damn card.
I don't care who your mother is.
Get the fuck out of here! Kind of smart for a fat man, isn't he? All right.
Goddamn it, Ziggy, you sick fuck.
Get your dick out of my computer! Where are the detectives who were first assigned? Dead.
To me, anyway.
I shipped them humps back to Burrell as fast as I could.
What kept you? That's the beautiful thing about this department.
Every brain-dead somehow manages to land on his feet.
How's it hanging, Prez? - How're you doing? I'm all right.
Where's Lester? We got him, too, right? He was out on the street today with Homicide but Rawls promised to give him the bad news tomorrow.
Not McNulty though.
McNulty they really hate, not that I blame them.
You, of course, have Roland for the duration.
Anyone else from the southeastern you need, you got.
I'll leave you to it, then.
Carver's in the southeast, now.
I think he's got Sector Two.
It'd be great to have Carver on this, right? On what? We don't even know what the hell we're supposed to be chasing here.
No offense to your father-in-law, but it's real thin.
We're here, right? Whatever happens, we run with the program for a few weeks.
Maybe make a drug case or two down by the port.
Beats the hell out of E.
C.
U.
anyway.
Him and this lady have this daughter.
The daughter's born a mute.
The wife doesn't like that at all, so she breaks out.
So this guy's raising his daughter, she has her period freaks out, goes to him, he thinks she was raped- Jackpot.
That's about $10 worth of bulk metal right there.
We just have to haul it down to the scrap yard and we're good.
We'll break our fucking backs on this thing.
Keep your eye to the ground, okay? I'm schooling you.
Okay? This is good, right here.
This is $10 right here.
Snitching Bubs.
You be asking for me? These headphones are great.
I'm gonna use them at the gym.
Thanks.
You hear the boys? - No, it's quiet up there.
A little too quiet.
That means they're probably playing video games.
Or with a book of matches.
So, did you have a lawyer look at the papers yet? I did.
And? - He says I shouldn't sign it.
Says I'm giving away too much.
I would never, under any circumstances pay that kind of support and alimony if we went to court.
That's what he says? Signed and notarized.
I don't wanna argue about the money.
I wanna get back together.
Yeah.
Yo, String, I was subtle with that.
has led to drug distribution charges against three inmates one who was, himself, incapacitated by the tainted narcotics and the correctional officer a 10-year veteran.
I've been instructed by the Corrections Commissioner and the State Public Safety Secretary to announce that the maximum penalties will be sought against this officer I got a midterm.
I got to study.
So this is their joint? - What's the plan? Time to make it clear to these people that we're not gonna go away.
You ain't gonna play that country shit, right? I hate that country shit.
Not even Ray Charles can save that mess for me.
No, sir.
Big Daddy Lipscomb was right tackle.
Your brain's gone to shit, Jessy.
Left tackle.
You was too busy pissing in your drawers to learn left from right.
Take your ass down to Schula's Steakhouse and get an education.
Darling.
What's the deal? Just dropping in for one or two and then we take ourselves out of here.
How about you? I'm leaving after this one.
You guys Port Police? I don't recognize either one of you.
City Homicide.
Homicide? - Who got killed? - Those dead girls in the can.
That was an accident.
That was a fucking accident.
That's what I heard, anyway.
Excuse me.

My man.
Ain't but $290 here.
Goddamn it, Frog, when you work a g-pack for a guy a kickback's supposed to be $500.
Stash got hit, yo.
I ain't hearing that shit! I want my fucking money! You'd best know I ain't playing, motherfucker.
Okay, that's how you want it? Fine! But when I roll back past here tomorrow, money gonna be right, or you gonna see.
You gonna see who you're fucking with! Do I look like a fucking punk? Yo, shorty.
Get me a Snapple and a bag of crab chips from the corner.
What the fuck is your problem, asshole? Fuck, this is bad shit! Fuck, this is really bad.
Shit.
Get your ass out that car.
All right! Shut up.
Where the money at? Check his socks.
You got something for me here, Zig? You got some dough for me, man? Jesus, jackpot.
Man, hold up, man.
Ain't enough here to really call this shit money, man.
Cheese, take it easy, I'm working on it.
But my people, you know What the fuck you think this is, man? What, you think this supposed to get played some other way? Is that what you think, man? Damn it, son of a bitch, that hurt.
Yeah, I know it did.
All right, look, how about the coat? Take the coat, all right? I paid two large for it so that, plus the cash I gave you and then I can get $700 more by the end of the week.
You know I will! You know right there, you can fix that.
$2,000? For this? Not even a black man could style that shit.
You know what I'm saying, man? What you laughing at, man? Chill, be cool about it.
I'll get your money by Friday.
Then you'll see there's no need to get all fucking dramatic out here! Look, man, if I ain't paid by Friday, you dead by Saturday, man.
Yo, take my man's ride.
Fuck, I need that! I fucking need that! Fuck you! Why me? You don't want the posting, I'll take someone else.
Valchek gave me the pick of his district.
I'm not saying I don't want it.
I'm asking why you would choose me after what happened last go around.
Yeah, I thought about that, too.
Looking at the list of names on the southeastern roster I'm saying to myself: "Why take a man who already burned you once "who already proved himself disloyal?" Now, why would I do that? I have no fucking clue, Lieutenant.
Because if I caught him once he might be the last son of a bitch to try it twice.
I'm guessing you got enough shame from the last time so that it won't happen again.
No, sir, it won't.
One other thing as far as I'm concerned, those stripes on your sleeve aren't earned.
Your paycheck may say "sergeant," but on this detail Det.
Greggs runs your team.
Same as it ever was.
Well? I'm in.
Come here, you sweet bitch.
Motherfu- Don't be grabbing my dick, faggot.
I raised him on the radio.
He's on his way in right now.
Appreciate that, Officer.
Nice day.
Summit Silver 450.
Top of the line, right here.
Over there? Yo, Bubs.
McNulty, the sailor man? Watch the front.
Here.
Stick that on that thing there, will you? The cleat? Ain't you know nothing? Look at you, I don't know, maybe it's just me but something's way the fuck wrong with this picture.
What the hell is that? A Baltimore knot.
What the hell is a Baltimore knot? I don't know, but it's never the same thing twice.
What can I tell you? My detecting days are over.
What the fuck you have me hunt up Omar then for? That's old business.
You remember Bird? His trial's up next week.
Omar's got some witnessing to do.
He said you can reach him here at this number.
You can leave a message.
Good work, Bubs.
As always.
Here.
Cab fare.
You say tit-for-tat, and we let slide on a little county caper.
I got to think that, you know, you need to think about what you had me endeavoring to accomplish.
I mean, what the fuck, man? I'm not out there asking about no random-ass, who-give-a-damn nigger.
No, sir.
I'm making inquiries in your behalf in regards to that fucking unforgiving, motherfucking Omar, man.
Why? He play you hard? I go at him respectable he put that goddamn shotgun in my face, man.
I'm looking at two tubes of the harbor tunnel staring right at me, each one about yea-big.
I damn near pissed in my pants and he stood smiling like this shit is funny.
It ain't funny.
McNulty, I know I'm paying taxes on some things I got to believe this is more aggregation than: "Good work, bubs," and a little bit of this.
For your pains.
Where are we at with the Jane Does? Taking a hard look at the port, we're gonna drop a grand jury summons on every stevedore who worked the ship, keep rattling cages.
How's the port police broad working out for us? She knows the docks okay.
No detective, though.
In that case, you need someone fresh.
Cole, maybe, Massy or whoever's up.
You need to get over to the southeastern today.
You're detailed temporarily.
Colonel, respectfully, did you just fuck me over without giving me even half a chance to clear this case? Let's be clear, Det.
Freamon.
When I fuck you over, you'll know it.
You'll be so goddamn certain, you won't need to ask the question.
And you, Det.
Moreland, are now all alone with 14 red names.
How's it feel? And the parking pad in the rear is invaluable for Federal Hill.
The deck has a harbor view? Yes, in two directions.
Go on up, take a look.
I think you'll love it.
This ain't Federal Hill.
Excuse me? This is the Point, Locust Point.
As far as real estate goes, anything that is below Montgomery Street and above the water is now called Federal Hill.
Are you two house hunting? We just started.
If you're interested in this area, I could run some listings for you.
This particular house- - Is my aunt Treesey's.
Really, your aunt? Is she a relation to the McDonalds? Nope.
She's a relation to me.
She died, like, four years ago.
The family sold the house right after.
Is that the price? That's the listing, yes.
They ain't gonna get that much, right? I can't say for certain, but one just like it in the 1200 block sold for $340,000 last week.
$340,000? - Thanks.
Yeah.
Maybe we should rent.
We're here because Valchek wants us here because he believes this man and his down-at-the-heels union local has too much money.
To start with, you and Freamon are gonna put some DNRs on the union hall phones.
Also, run what you can on the union finances and on Sobotka personally.
We put that together, copy it to the major to show him we're on it and buy ourselves a little time.
Meanwhile, you three, do what you do best.
Find out where port folks like to cop on a Friday night set up some hand-to-hands, maybe a reverse or two.
A lot of these port guys are white, aren't they? I mean, some of the southeast street dealers, too.
So that means you're gonna need a white boy to go down to some of these southeastern corners, right? So Kima, Carv on the rooftops.
It's my time to front.
I'll show you how it's done, homes.
Cool Lester smooth.
What's happening? Same fuck-ups in the same shit detail working out of the same shithouse kind of office.
You people lack for personal growth, you know that? It's a temporary posting.
Rawls gets you back at the end of the run.
If he wants me.
Last I looked, I was high on his shit list.
Then we did you a favor.
I wouldn't go that far.
But fuck it.
Who we chasing? Frank Sobotka? - How fucking good is he? - You know the man? Me and Bunk Moreland were fucking with this guy last week working that case about dead girls in the container.
He a suspect? No, just someone who know what's getting done on the port terminals.
Why are you on him? - My father-in-law hates his guts.
Which, in the southeastern, goes for probable cause.
Valchek thinks he has too much cash.
So you're thinking drugs? In this fucking town, what other crime is there? You know I would've been down here sooner, it's just with Terrell being sick and all But, Dee, I got everything we need paid for.
When you come home, Stringer's saying they gonna hook you up with something out of the mix.
Like running a club, or straight business, like.
String say they gonna keep you apart from it and give back some time for family.
For you and me and Terrell.
Family? They thinking about how they can do for you.
They making all these plans even though you been playing cold with your uncle.
Stringer says so, anyhow.
Why you be like that? Throwing them off when they looking to do for you? They playing you with that "We're family, and it's all about love.
" That's how they do.
When they got no more use for you, that family shit disappears.
It's just about business, Donette.
Dee, they gonna be there for us.
What's up, man? You got that Death Grip.
You know Stony got that check.
Slow down, fool.
I'm saying you need to spend that shit here.
Death Grip be the fucking bomb, yo.
I ain't got no ends.
Motherfucker said it ain't shit.
No, I ain't say that.
That's enough, yo, let that shit be.
Fuck you all.
Yeah, motherfucker? Yo, B.
Shit jumping off in the Pit, yo.
Damn.
What the fuck was that? Fiend badmouthing our shit, saying Death Grip ain't all that.
Now we're beating niggers over speaking the truth? I ain't hit him, the young'uns, yo.
You can't tell these fools nothing.
We stomping niggers over bullshit, man.
Somebody got to pull Stringer up on this.
Zig, what's up? Jesus, Zig, what the fuck happened? Fucking niggers got me.
What? Took my money, and they got Princess, too.
You hear me? They got my fucking car.
If I had a gun, I swear to God I would've capped every one of those motherfuckers.
You call the cops? - Can't.
It was over some dope.
You bought a fucking package, didn't you? Serves you right, you stupid fuck.
From who? White Mike? This nigger Cheese, up on Wolfe and Ashland.
A few ounces, you know? - Why not White Mike? Fuck Mike, you know how he be.
Why the fuck would I know how he be? Nicky, it ain't my fault, all right? It ain't.
Look, business has been slow, package ain't turned around yet.
But the fucking hoodleheads ain't hearing it, so I get jumped.
They got Princess, man.
They're holding her for fucking ransom.
And now they're telling me if I don't have the money by Friday, they're going to kill me.
I need $2,700.
So? You're a drug dealer, go sell some fucking drugs.
You fucked up the package, didn't you, Zig? I ain't giving you the money.
They're gonna kill me.
I gave my money to Aimee for an apartment.
Security deposit and some furniture over at Littlepages.
I ain't got it for you, Zig.
You cocksuckers.
Major in? - Yeah, just knock.
Yeah? We're about to make some hand-to-hands around the port.
Lt.
Daniels said I should see you about a surveillance van.
The van? The van's on loan to the southwest.
Okay.
Fuck with my ass, will you? Bringing us back to our old friends, supply and demand.
All right, your research papers are here.
Remember Friday, take-home test.
Well done, Mr.
Bell.
Mr.
Lucas, you got five minutes? - Absolutely.
There's something maybe you can help me out with.
I'll try.
What are the options when you got an inferior product in an aggressive marketplace? If you have a large share of the market, you can buy up the competition.
And if you don't? Reduce price to increase market share.
That assumes low overhead.
Of course, otherwise, you operate at a loss and worse, as your prices drop your product eventually loses consumer credibility.
You know, the new CEO of WorldCom was faced with this very problem.
The company was linked to one of the largest fraud cases in history.
So he proposed- - To change the name? Exactly.
Which one? He's got a weenie in his hand.
On this case, ain't that you? Thomas Pakusa, come on down.
What the fuck is that? Grand jury summons.
Grand jury? You lie to us, you hurt our feelings.
You lie to them, it's perjury.
And one more I just dropped on your barbecue chef outside.
You used to be a lot more fun, you know that, Bea? That's John Spamanato right there.
Johnny Fifty.
How you doing, Officer? Johnny Fifty? What the fuck is that? Son of a bitch drinks 53 beers on his 25th birthday.
So as to be, what do you call it, poetical, we rounded it off.
"Grand jury for the circuit court of Baltimore City.
" You worked the Atlantic Light, right? Everybody on that ship testifies.
About what? About them girls in the can.
The detective here thinks we know something about that mess.
He thinks we'd leave them there on the dock in a box, dying there in the dark because Because why, Detective? What reason would we have to want girls to die like that? Why would any of us leave them in there if we knew anything about it? I got a wife and three sisters.
And they got daughters.
And I got too much respect for women not to be pissed off at what's in your heads right now.
Of all the cans on the terminal, that's the one you lose in the stacks.
We didn't know shit, goddamn it! You want us to dance with a grand jury, we will! What do you say, Johnny? What do you say to any question? I take the fifth commandment.
And if they offer you immunity to testify against your union brothers? - I don't remember.
Don't remember what? Nothing.
What you're forgetting is that every I.
B.
S.
local on the East Coast has had its ass in front of a federal grand jury two or three times already.
You want to throw your summonses? Throw them.
You want to subpoena our records? You don't need a subpoena no more.
Our books were open to the Justice Department for eight years.
We're here through Bobby Kennedy, Tricky Dick Nixon Ronnie "The Union Buster" Reagan, and half a dozen other sons of bitches.
We'll be here through your weak bullshit, no problem! These four ain't working today.
You wanna leave the papers here I'll make sure they get them and go downtown on them.
Come on.
Today? - Now! You described the weapon used to kill Mr.
Gant as a.
380 semi-automatic.
You provided the size, and even suggested the manufacturer: "Australian, or one of those 'A' countries.
" Is that correct? Indeed.
And you were approximately Yes, ma'am, you know, give or take.
Mr.
Little, at that distance how were you able to determine who manufactured the weapon? I wasn't.
Then how were you able to relate that information to the detectives? Bird showed it to me.
He showed you the weapon before the murder? Which murder we talking? Bird committed more than one murder? Fish got to swim, you know what I'm saying? Like I said before, Bird was showing that thing to everybody talking about this deed and the next.
I didn't pay him no mind until you all came and showed him some interest.
Mr.
Little, if you wouldn't mind waiting outside I'd like a few words with Officer McNulty.
I thought he did good.
Imagine the mileage Maury Levy gets out of me putting that sociopath on the stand.
You got to admit, it'll be different.
Dress him up at least.
I can't have him on the stand looking like that.
Here's a voucher for court clothes.
Anything with a tie.
I'm saying, Dirt you wanna be my nigger, you got to be with me for real.
You see what I'm saying, yo? Well, I'll be.
All the time I be telling you, be on post.
But damn, homes, you all the time up in some damn crib trying to play house with them bitches.
I'm saying, you all be seriously fucked up because I'm out here getting done what needs done.
Feel me, nigga? Thieving motherfuckers take everything, don't they? You know what I'm saying, Dirt.
You wanna be my nigger, you gots to deliver for real.
How'd we do, Charlie? I've almost got one of them ready to swear that the docks are actually near the water.
They don't scare, them guys.
What now? You telling me you never had a CI down there, right? A Cl? An informant.
You ain't got no informants on the dock? Someone you could go to on this? Someone you got a history with? They say a police is only as good as his informants.
Meaning, we ain't about much.
The voucher says $150.
Look on the clearance rack.
It's a look.
No, it ain't.
You figure it out for yourself.
I'm going across the street to the federal building.
I'll see you in about a half-hour.
Look, man, if I ain't here, I'm round the way on Howard Street, Liddell's.
Either that, or I'll be with Muffy at the club.
Where's he at? Said he had to go get his props.
Request lateral with 12-10.
KGA, he can meet me on 6.
Do you copy, 12-08? Yo, dickhead, where you been at? When you're working deep cover, Carv, you got to get into the part.
What's up? You need a little help? Maybe, bro.
You got any raw up in here? - You got it to spend? - For sure.
All right, then we good.
Go and holler at my niggers round back.
Yo, Carv.
You copy this? It's all in the props, baby.
All in the props.
Feel any different? Me neither.
Special Agent Cleary.
Jim McNulty, from the city.
How can I help you? Found floating off the Key Bridge.
We think she's linked to the dead girls found in the container at Patapsco.
Your people were just here, asking for a trace on the can.
Homicide fellows.
Black guys, Moreland, Freamon? - Yeah, you working with them? - Sort of, I fished her out.
I kind of feel like it's on me to find her people.
You're kidding, right? No, I thought maybe if you guys have, you know been pulling in any women who've been over here on the circuit.
Step into my world, Virginia.
A grand jury? They snatched up some of our guys, drove them downtown.
But you know nothing.
Yeah, no shit, we know nothing.
The only guy they got that even knows you had a can that day was Horse and he ain't gonna say shit to nobody.
You sure? Horse is a rock.
Don't ever worry about him.
My uncle neither.
But you say he wants to stop.
Yeah, for a little while.
He wants you to stop moving cans through our docks at least until this shit chills.
These were local police, right? Yeah.
Their interest is in the girls.
That happened on the ship, the ship is gone.
A dead end.
The malaka they want, we already got to in Philly.
Another dead end.
The police are going nowhere.
But, more important, we address Frank's concerns.
You tell your uncle I will meet with him.
He says he wants to meet with the Greek.
Anything he can say to the Greek, he can say to me.
Says he wants the Greek.
Says you tell him when and where.
Niko.
About that other business, the chemicals What do you need them for? It's just business.
Everything is just business with us.
Buy for a nickel, you sell for a dime.
Yeah? Who wants a dime's worth of fucking chemicals? So these are undocumenteds from just this field office? Maryland and Delaware only.
Any of them still in your custody? I'd love the chance to show some photos, maybe get lucky.
Everyone in that book was deported.
You can guess, some of them are already back.
Any field office have anything active? That's what I'm looking at right here.
You got some girls in custody in San Diego, also Seattle.
Anything I can drive to? Closest is a case up in Jersey, Hudson County.
Raid on a couple clubs up there put That'll work.
So you really gonna go up there on your own time? I'll take a day, yeah.
What's between you and this girl? You seen what happens down at the morgue, when they can't ID a body? I have.
Mau.
How you been? - Same old.
Yeah? You getting some days? Pretty much.
I'm in the tower now, working the lanes.
You want to come in? I got, I don't know, some beers, maybe some Bacardi around.
Maybe we could just go for a cup of coffee and talk, you know? Let me get my jacket.
So I tell him, "Dee, why you acting like that?" He just sit there like I didn't say a damn thing.
He off the damn hook.
You tell him about the plans, right? I told him you all was gonna set him up and everything.
And he know how you all been doing for me while he away.
He knows some.
I mean, damn, he don't need to know about it all, right? Anyway, I'm saying I'll get down there next weekend and he look at me like I ain't saying shit.
He say just leave him alone.
Got to turn that roast.
You gonna see, String, for real.
Little Donette know how to burn.
Your father bucking us, little man.
What you think about that? Yeah.
I think you're right.
What you looking at? Fucking Ziggy, man.
I'm about to get my ass shot behind his bullshit? We're reasonable, they're reasonable.
Fuck that, maybe on your side of town.
What's up? Came to see a man about a car.
Maybe tell Cheese we're here.
Yo, Cheese.
White boy.
Yo, you got my money, man? That's what we came to talk about.
Yo, you got to a lot of heart coming up in here without my fucking money.
We thought maybe we can work something out so you can get what's yours.
How you plan to do that? You give the car back, I'll get him to sell it off.
Camaro with a 350 in it, it's got to be worth more than $3,000.
That's right clever.
Right clever, I got to say.
And I appreciate you all coming all this way so much I'll give the boy another week to pay.
Of course, that ride ain't worth nothing near $3,000.
You don't believe me? Have a look.
You show up at my door, I'm thinking better thoughts than this.
And you counted on that? Who else am I gonna ask? I ain't no snitch, Beadie.
Not even for you am I a snitch.
I'm not thinking about it like that.
I'm thinking, here's a guy, and we had some times together and even though, you know, it didn't get to where he might have wanted it he's still a good guy someone I can talk to about this.
How come it didn't go nowhere? You did good.
Who knows? I don't know, you never know.
I could show you pictures of how they died.
Broken fingernails, blood on the walls.
All of a sudden, you're a cop.
Help me with this, Mau.
You didn't get shit from grabbing up Horseface and them, did you? It's kind of funny when you think about it.
I mean, you running around like your head's all chopped off looking for someone to clue you in when a lot of what you're asking about is right there for the taking.
How so? Used to be us checkers did everything with paper and a pencil, right? Every move on a ship, we wrote it down.
When that ship sails, and there ain't no problems then that paper gets tossed.
That don't happen today, right? Nothing gets tossed anymore.
The computer.
Thanks, Mau.
Well? Good news and bad, Zig.
Those fucking niggers.
Give me the bad.
They're still gonna kill you.
They're gonna wait a week.
What the fuck can be good? You can cancel your car insurance.
Let me get two red tops.
There we go.
I hope you guys are taking notes.
Shit.
One-and-one.
One more time with that toothpick, I'm going to stab his eye with it.
Ashamed he should be to be Greek and call this a diner.
A talk would ease his mind.
Ease my mind first.
This business with the grand jury.
We checked the courthouse.
There is nothing special.
Just the regular panels.
They're trying to scare the men on the docks.
And? - Nobody talks.
But Sobotka, as I said, he's upset.
It is more attention than he expected.
He will need money for his lawyers.
Double his fee.
But I don't need to meet with him.
Let the money talk.
Everything we get from Atlanta been walked on.
Each one weaker than the other.
And this nigger Roberto is on the shelf to us right now.
I mean, it's getting hard to hold onto the Towers without our name all over the product is what I'm saying.
Who got the good shit? Eastside.
Eastside, who? This nigger Milton got a small cut, Prop Joe this Jamaican cat who got the strip off Gay Street.
You talking about Petey, Petey Dixon.
You go over to the expressway at lunchtime you can watch the fiends traveling from west to east.
Damn! I mean, I'm cutting shit with shit right now, trying to cheat, but sooner or later.
I hear you, man, I'm on it.
You working it out with Dee? Boy got to find his own way.
I'm saying, you know I think we should keep reaching out to this kid.
Give something to him and his girl.
I don't know, show them we got a plan.
Take some real estate, put it in Dee's name.
He has something to come home to.
Do it.
Thing is, String, what happened happened, you know what I mean? Push come to shove, I've been fair to him, ain't I? You've been fair.
Too fair.
Where's the Greek? - He sent me.
Fuck you, and fuck him.
Frank, he sent me to tell you that we're doubling your fee to help with any legal troubles.
He also told me to tell you he regrets that you're still having problems on our behalf.
They're throwing my people in back of police cars and this asshole can't even talk face to face? I'm done.
I'm out.
I need nothing more to do with you people.
I don't need the trouble or the money.
I got a union to run.
They used to make steel there, no? Smoke from the stacks.
But inside Potassium permanganate.
Spell "permanganate.
" F- U-C-K.
You even know what the fuck you're doing there, Zig? I'm in the checker's local, right? You know, while you Local 47 boys were having bulk cargo dropped on your heads we was out grabbing the future by the balls.
So you just type that shit in there and ask it for an answer? Let me ask you: Why do we give a fuck what the shit is for? If they want it, they want it.
I mean, besides, if I don't get some money soon I'm fucking toasted.
I don't know who you've been talking to but we don't have that kind of stealing going on down here.
It's not like the old days.
No? A little here and there, but for the most part the new technology has changed everything.
Look, see this little box right here? You fucking mind? Ring's a little stressed right now having misplaced a frozen can full of Japanese tuna steaks supposed to be at the Jessup wholesale market by yesterday.
Bite me.
Frank, these officers are- - I know who they are.
Frank here helped set this system up.
He probably can explain it better than I can, if he doesn't mind.
No problem, chief.
In a nutshell, what this shows is the Aqua Verde at Berth 4.
The plan calls for 85 moves.
That's cans, containers, coming off the ship, and others going back on.
Now, look at the screen.
Every time a can goes on or off, the computer creates a record and puts it in the permanent database.
He was saying the computer makes it hard to steal off the docks.
Did our port manager tell you that right now we got 160 boxes missing off the Patapsco terminal alone? Or that last time we inventoried the truck chassis we came up 300 light? No, I suppose not.
That's management for you.
Not that all of them are stolen.
You can lose a can by accident, no problem.
For one thing, these hand-helds use radio waves.
With all the equipment and container stacks out there sometimes waves get knocked down.
That happens, a can don't get entered.
Or, just as easy, a checker makes the wrong entry.
Either 'cause he's lazy, he's sloppy, or he's still shitfaced from the night before.
Or, simpler than that, you got fat fingers.
No offense.
So imagine February on the docks.
You're wearing Gortex gloves, trying to punch numbers on that thing.
You're saying that's what happened to the can with the girls in it? Beadie, darling, I don't know what happened there.
I'm just saying, if you go by the computer it might look like there's some dirt going down when it's really just a glitch in the system.
The customs seal was broke on that box.
Shouldn't that get noticed? You're offloading a ship the size of a small town.
You might notice a broke seal, you might not.
Look, you wanna keep pulling our chain, you can.
But it ain't like it's just that one box that went missing.
We lose them sons of bitches all the time.
Frank give you everything you need? - He did, thanks.
They're playing us.
You drove all the way from Baltimore on a hope and a prayer? Yeah, I'm dead-ended on this.
Is there anything we can offer any of them for cooperation? You could marry one of them, make her an American housewife.
Short of that, they're going back the fuck where they came from.
Where do you hold them? - County detention.
We keep the undocumenteds out of gen pop.
You all heard of WorldCom? All right, let's try this.
You all get jacked by some knockos.
But you all clean.
You all got an outstanding warrant, like everybody in here.
What do you do? Give another name.
Why? Because your real name ain't no good.
All right, it ain't good and Follow through.
All right, Death Grip ain't shit? Then change up the name.
What else? Yo, I got it, change the caps from red to blue, right? Make it look like we got some fresh shit, boom.
You know what else we might could do? Give each tower its own name, right? And then we do, like, some fake competing.
So, a fiend gets some bad shit from one, he'd go back to the other.
There's a thinking man, right there.
See, nigger, ain't that what the fuck I just said? You and my uncle talk? How'd it go? No problem.
Three boxes.
All of them on the Wilhelmina.
And you should tell your uncle that it's three times the usual fee for each.
We checked on those chemicals.
We looked into that.
I was worried, you know? Before I deliver, I wanna know what you need it for.
A bomb or some shit? I ain't down for that.
You use that shit to process drugs, don't you? Cocaine.
You still want it, I got it on the Fairfield piers.
No problem.
When? End of the week.
Maryska.
She's good with English.
They're dead.
All I'm trying to do is get word to the families.
What did she say? She wants to know, if she knows a girl, does she get to stay? You want a good restaurant for dinner, or are you headed right back? A computer? To run a trace on the missing containers in the port administration's database.
You're looking for what? A pattern for our case.
We need to know who left those girls on the dock and why.
We're supposed to be on Sobotka and the checkers union anyway so folding one investigation into the other makes sense.
Not to me, it doesn't.
I'm not bringing your open murders anywhere near this detail, that's a loser for us.
Lieutenant! We bring in a few drug rips, and show that we gave Sobotka and his union a quick, fair look, it's more than enough for Burrell.
He returns the favor, and I'm out of the basement and running an investigative unit again.
You dirty me up with murders I can't solve.
It doesn't play like that.
Homicide's not the place to sprawl a case, Lieutenant.
Rawls, Landsman they have no patience for anything but a quick shake.
We got enough room for it here, anyway.
You can set up here at the off-site and we can share information.
But the murders stay with Homicide.
Unless, of course, you find a suspect.
Three ROIROs, four containers.
I got all my cards up, including long numbers and we're still short.
A good day.
That it is.
Everybody works today, even you, my little j-series wonders.
Even you.
Is Horse working the Wilhelmina today? I told that motherfucker we were done.
I told him! He said he talked to you.
He said it's triple-rate for every can.
Triple? Call Horse in the tower.
Tell him he's working the Wilhelmina.
It's now or never for us, I got no choice.
Today we got ships, Uncle Frank.
Today.
But the writing's on the fucking wall.
Fuck the wall.

Ain't working out for y'all, huh? - Mars is the god of war, right? - Planet, too.
I know it's a planet.
But the clue is "Greek god of war.
" Ares.
Greeks called him Ares.
Same dude, different name, that's all.
Ares fits.
Thanks.
It's all good.
See, back in middle school and all, I used to love them myths.
That stuff was deep.
Truly.
You're up.
State calls Omar Little, Your Honor.
Faggot.
Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God? I surely do.
State your name for the record.
Omar Devon Little.
Mr.
Little, how old are you? - About 29, thereabout.
And where do you live? - No place in particular, ma'am.
You're homeless? - In the wind, so to speak.
And what is your occupation? - Occupation? What exactly do you do for a living, Mr.
Little? I rip and run.
You - I robs drug dealers.
And exactly how long has this been your occupation, Mr.
Little? I don't know exactly.
I venture to say maybe about eight or nine years.
Mr.
Little, how does a man rob drug dealers for eight or nine years and live to tell about it? Day at a time, I suppose.
What do we know? On Sobotka, very little.
He seems to live within his means.
House in Glen Burnie, paid-off truck, modest savings.
Credit history is okay.
There's no flash to him, nothing dramatic.
Doesn't sound much like a money man to me.
Or maybe he's hiding it.
The union is also a little threadbare.
They paid the taxes on union hall almost a year late and that was only after they got hit with liens.
Looking at their books- - You subpoenaed their books? - You don't need to.
IBS books are open to the Justice Department under the terms of a federal racketeering case - that came out of New York five years ago.
We called Washington.
They sent us a copy of everything the Baltimore locals have filed.
The books show that there's less than a 100 checkers still paying dues to 15-14.
And that's down from about 300 in the '70s.
They're hurting.
So where's all this money Valchek is talking about? The IBS hired Bruce DiBiago to lobby Annapolis this session.
And through individual officers and union members they've paid about $70,000 to various PACs and Democratic organizations in the last eight months.
They show any of that on their books? No, we pieced that together from the campaign finance reports.
That's just what was in the names of the union officers we cross-referenced.
So, where's the cash coming from? - Drugs? So far, DNRs on the union hall phones don't show much.
Union business and personal calls, but no beepers and not much in the way of cell numbers or payphones either.
What's with those hand-to-hands? Anything connect? We're buying from a lot of white boys.
O'Donnell Heights, Greektown, Highlandtown above the park.
But any port connections feel random.
The money comes from somewhere.
Maybe it's what the checkers do.
I mean they monitor what comes in and out of the port.
That's what they do, that's their value.
They're bringing the shit in? Or they're letting it happen.
Like that can full of dead girls.
They kept that out of the computer.
Which is why we're gonna quietly do some work on that side of things.
Kima, Prez, I want you to start looking at girls.
No problem.
If they're coming into Baltimore, who's working them? Are they club dancing, whoring? We need to plug into that circuit.
As for the rest of you Lester is gonna stay with the paper trail and with the DNRs looking for connections to the union money.
Herc and Carver you guys keep working the drug corners near the port.
Officer Russell here and Bunk Moreland are assigned to Homicide but for the time being they'll be with us running the port database, looking for any pattern involving contraband.
Questions? Excuse me.
I'm Thomas.
Beadie.
Would you like to go to Royal Farms, maybe get a cup of coffee? Right.
Yo, I'm Thomas.
You want a coffee? Listen, I was gonna ask her for her panties to make some soup with but I was afraid she'd take it the wrong way.
You were at the opposite end of the parking lot - when the assailant drew his gun? - Thereabout.
Do you see the gunman who killed Mr.
Gant anywhere in the courtroom today? Yo, what up, Bird? For the record, you are identifying the defendant, Marquis Hilton.
It's just Bird to me.
And Mr.
Little, you had seen him many times before, had you not? - Yeah, we jailed together down the Cut- - Objection, Your Honor.
May we approach? Quite a witness, ain't he? Word on the street is, Omar ain't nowhere near them rises when the shit pop.
Street said little cocksucker was over on the East Side sticking up some Ashland Avenue niggers.
That's the word on the street, huh? Trouble is, String, we ain't on the street.
We're in a court of law.
Your Honor- Objection is noted and preserved for the record, Mr.
Levy.
Move on.
Thank you, Your Honor.
Jurors will disregard that last comment from the witness in which he explained where he had last encountered the defendant.
Yes or no, Mr.
Little? Prior to the shooting, did you know the defendant? I knew the man, but wasn't like he was no friend or nothing.
So you would have no trouble recognizing him from a moderate distance say 20, 25 yards in daylight? No problem.
Mr.
Little, do you recognize this particular weapon? Yeah, that's Bird's gun, the.
380.
You've seen it before? - Bird always flashing that thing.
So you'd actually seen it before the day in question.
And on the day in question? - It was in Bird's hand.
When he shot at Mr.
Gant? - Yes, ma'am.
Bird covet them shiny little pistols.
Objection, Your Honor.
And the boy too trifling to throw it off even after a daytime murder.
You're a lying cocksucker, man.
I'll rip your heart out your goddamn chest! The defendant will regain control or he will be forcibly restrained and I will clear the court.
The witness's last answer is to be stricken and disregarded by the jury.
Niko.
Eton is my friend.
It's good to have friends meet, no? Eton, huh? That's from the Greek, meaning what? No Greek.
Israeli.
Yeah? 'Cause you look Greek, no offense.
Either way, I mean - You have the chemicals? - I can get them, as much as you want.
When? I was gonna do something this week.
There's been a problem, though.
What problem? - My cousin Ziggy.
He got into a beef with these East Baltimore guys.
Drug dealer by the name of Cheese took his car, burned it now he's saying he's gonna dust Zig if he doesn't pay.
Yeah, malaka, right.
Zig fucked up the package.
So, you bring us the chemicals, we pay.
Then you pay your debt.
It was $2,700, right? Now, this asshole is saying it's double.
$5,400, you believe that? First he takes the car and now he's jacking us around on the money.
You want, we kill him.
No.
That ain't it either, no.
Why no? 'Cause first of all, Zig fucked it up.
He owes $2,700.
And second, you kill Cheese and we're gonna have a fight with his people, right? A year down the road some nigger sees my cousin coming out the burger shop putting gas in his car on Central Avenue, no questions, puts a cap in his ass.
He's smart, huh? Niko, smart.
We don't have the muscle to go talk to this guy, make things right.
I was hoping maybe you do.
Mr.
Little can I ask why you came forward in this case? - I told the police what I know.
Were you offered anything in exchange? - Like what? - Were you arrested? Were you going to be charged with a crime, and by testifying did the police agree to drop those charges? No, man, it ain't even about that.
How many times have you been arrested as an adult, Mr.
Little? Shoot, I done lost count.
Enough, though, not to take it personal.
Possession of a handgun possessing a concealed weapon, assault by pointing robbery, deadly weapon, possession of a handgun again followed by violation of parole on weapon charges followed by one count of attempted murder and use of a handgun in commission of a felony.
That wasn't no attempt murder.
What was it, Mr.
Little? I shot the boy Mike-Mike in his hind parts, that all.
Fixed it so he couldn't sit right.
Why'd you shoot Mike-Mike in his hind parts? - Let's say we had a disagreement.
A disagreement over? Mike-Mike thought he should keep that cocaine he was slinging and the money he was making from slinging it.
I thought otherwise.
So you rob drug dealers? This is what you do.
Yes, sir.
You walk the streets of Baltimore with a gun taking what you want, when you want it willing to use violence when your demands aren't met.
This is who you are.
Why should we believe your testimony then? - Why believe anything you say? - That's up to y'all, really.
You say you aren't here testifying against the defendant - because of any deal you made with police.
True that.
That you are here because you want to tell the truth about what happened to Mr.
Gant in that housing project parking lot.
Yup.
When in fact you are exactly the kind of person who would if you felt you needed to shoot a man down on a housing project parking lot and then lie to the police about it, would you not? Look, I ain't never put my gun on no citizen.
You are amoral, are you not? You are feeding off the violence and the despair of the drug trade.
You are stealing from those who themselves are stealing the lifeblood from our city.
You are a parasite who leeches off - Just like you, man.
the culture of drugs Excuse me? What? I got the shotgun.
You got the briefcase.
It's all in the game, though, right? And with the economy, what it is you can really consider coming in 10% or 20% below asking and still feel competitive.
Even on the Hamburg Street address? - Absolutely.
I have to admit, I like the house at 1501.
Although I didn't like the color of the whirlpool tub in the master suite bathroom.
Magenta? - That's cosmetic.
If they want to make the sale they should have some amount of couth to change the color.
I know it's such a tiny point to harp on.
Maybe you're right.
Maybe we should just keep looking.
We shouldn't settle for just anything.
And you think that there will be some new open houses this Sunday? - I'm sorry, what were you saying? - We're gonna keep looking.
You'll take us around again on Sunday? - Definitely.
Okay then, see you Sunday, early.
Great.
Thank you.
I'll see you then.
You are a child, you know that? - What do you want? - Dinner and a movie.
Come on, stop it.
Why not? This isn't going anywhere, Jimmy.
Dinner and a movie, then I'll walk you to the door and you tell me to go fuck myself like you should've done way back when.
How about I tell you to fuck yourself here and now? Then you can save that money for someone else.
Come on, Elena.
Come on, I signed all your damn papers.
Give me another shot.
Friday.
You pay for the sitter.
So how that D.
C.
game, man? - Same as it ever was.
Chocolate City, I ain't been there in a while.
Call it Drama City nowadays.
Otherwise, same old gogo.
Same old Bamas.
Same soup, just reheated, know what I'm saying? If you need anything to make this happen, you gotta get it yourself.
I can't go through my people.
If Stringer Bell reaching all the way past Baltimore with this kind of work then we got a real mystery going on, don't we? Don't worry, no mistakes.
Nothing that might come back on you.
You sure of your people? - My cousin up in there - he on it.
All right.
I can't stand that gogo shit, anyhow.
Ain't heard it live, then.
I know a club in Oxon Hill that would wreck y'all.
All right.
If I'm around the way.
So, how you doing? - Nursing school right now.
Good, that's good.
Lester's been pushing me, you know.
He does it, kind of without you knowing that he's doing it.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
He said that you would be by today to talk about the clubs.
About some girls, Russian.
Or from that part of the world.
The ones on the circuit, yeah.
You should try this place called Nightshift down off of Holabird.
I have a friend who works there.
She worked with a bunch of Russian girls last year for about three months.
Think she'll talk to me? - Only if I ask her.
Thank you, Detective, nothing further.
Anything more on redirect, Miss Nathan? - No, Your Honor.
Let's take 10 minutes and then run the closing arguments.
I have every intention of beginning tomorrow with jury instructions.
How'd Omar do? - You didn't see it? Not the cross.
That bad? - You have no problem.
No? To start, he wants you to pay $5,400.
Then we talk.
He says, "No, you pay just the $2,700.
" - Yeah, I saw how you talked.
But you will not pay the $2,700.
Instead you will get the money for the car that burned.
Yeah? - Yeah.
Him we don't know.
But the one he calls boss, him we know.
You gonna sit there and pout? I know you don't think I'm going down to that club just to look at pussy.
I know you know me better than that.
I ain't even looking.
Everybody's looking.
Most of them women are dykes.
Cheryl, it's police work.
What, so that's supposed to make me feel better? Kima's out on the street doing her detective thing? All that hospital shit, all that rehab - all them promises- - We talked about this.
No, you talked.
I didn't get a word in edgewise once you made up your mind.
Where you going? - With you.
Excuse me? Who knows? I might see a little something I happen to like.
So all of that's on the table? There's money in the transport budget for the grain pier.
Also, a bond issue that pays for maintenance dredging on the main shipping channel.
But not the canal? - Nope, not the canal.
For that we'll have to fight a little longer and dig a little deeper.
So says Frank.
I gotta say, for my money, we're lucky if we pull out the grain pier.
Be that as it may, we spent the money and took our best shot.
Hired a couple lobbyists, made some smart contributions paid for a consultant's report to argue against some of the environmental stuff.
It cost, but we're starting to see it.
So where y'all find the cash? - I've been robbing liquor stores, two a week.
Seriously.
We got some help from the national office on this.
There've been some timely donations from a few friends here and there.
The point is, at the very least we're likely to see the grain pier back up by next year which means a couple hundred more ships a year, at least.
If.
And it's a big fucking "if.
" - If that Polack motherfucker- - Hey.
No offense.
If Krawczyk don't fuck us by throwing up waterfront condominiums first, right? Nat's right.
The back door threat is that Andy Kraw or some other developer gets enough last-minute votes to sink the rehab money for the grain pier.
Those guys are looking at that location, too.
So we need everybody making phone calls.
Let your legislators know that we're watching on this.
The money only goes so far.
Now we gotta make some noise, right? - Make some noise.
Okay, enough talk.
Some of youse got ships to work in the morning.
The rest of youse need to be drunk.
I'll drink to that.
Help from the national office, huh? Timely donations from friends? Watch your ass, Frank.
This is it? - Yeah.
Just picked it up from the port administrator.
So what am I looking at? The Atlantic Light on the day the can with the women was offloaded.
The boxes are containers.
This one's being offloaded and set on a chassis.
Here's the time: 10:31 hours.
See? It was moved to Lane L, Stack 6, Row 3 by an RTG at 10:37 hours.
RTG? - Rubber tire gantry.
So from ship to stack took six minutes.
That's the way it's supposed to work, but "AQQZ," as in zebra "396594.
" Check digit, seven.
That's the container number of the can with the women in it.
See that? It was never entered by the checker.
So as far as the computer is concerned, it no longer exists.
Sobotka says that that can happen when the radio waves get knocked down or when a checker inputs a bad serial number.
It came off Atlantic Light at 11:26 hours.
And it doesn't show up in the computer again until 15:12 hours.
I find it two hours after that.
So for nearly four hours, it's out on the docks, unaccounted for.
Sobotka says cans get lost all the time.
When they get found, they get put back into the computer.
You believe him? No, not this can.
So what's the plan? The database on this computer has records for every ship that berthed at Patapsco over the last two years.
We gotta go back through and find what other cans might've disappeared like that.
See if there's a pattern.
How many ships we talking about? Hundreds.
It ain't like I got a prayer of bringing this case in otherwise.
That's what I'm talking about.
All right.
What the hell is your problem? - Nothing.
Yeah, you look like you about to be sick or something.
I just can't look at them.
Prez, you ain't never been to a titty bar? Yeah, sure.
But not with women.
You're sure you're not gonna have a problem for talking to us? I don't give a shit.
You friends with Shardene, all that matters.
Besides, I'm from Westport, and I told them club owners straight-up I was here before them ho's got here and they better make sure I'm here after they leave.
So how long ago did they came through? - Six months back was the last batch.
Russians, I think, but shit all sound the same when you can't understand a damn word, right? - Who brought them? - Club owner pays extra for them.
There was a woman she was like the madam who handled the cash.
But I ain't get a name.
She Russian, too? She was something.
She had an accent.
So it's like, one day all Baltimore girls are at the bar and the next, what? - All foreign girls? - That about right.
They was making so much money with them new girls they let some of their regular dancers go.
Not me, 'cause I mean, I got clientele here.
But some of the others - Where'd the girls stay? Where they told.
Shit, they ain't here legally.
They don't know shit.
They ain't got no family.
The men they got handling them are always with them.
Right there to take them from whatever motel they use to the club and back.
Right there when they need to get food, or go to the Rite Aid.
Right outside the motel door when they up in them rooms with the johns.
Anyone try to get away? Shit, I seen one of them get lit up with one of them stun guns for going down the block to get some dinner.
They barely let them girls go to the bathroom by themselves.
And if they see one getting too close to the johns that's when they move the whole crew to another town.
Keep it so they don't get no help.
You up after the next song.
Push my numbers then.
I gotta go get paid, honey.
You need anything else, you can call me.
Help if I can.
I'll tell Shardene you said hi.
She must be doing good, to be out for so long.
She must've landed a rich one, right? - You her girl? - Yeah.
I wouldn't let mine come in here either without me.
These bitches in here are no joke.
Thirteen of them.
They had about a third of that space hidden behind the fake wall.
A few flashlights, some junk food, some water.
A portable toilet they had to share.
And not enough air.
I'm going to schedule sentencing for the third week of next month.
Anything else today? Your Honor, my client, having preserved the necessary grounds for appeal in the record, wishes me to state unequivocally that regardless of this jury's verdict he is the victim of wholesale perjury on the part of the state's key witness.
We ask that an appeal bond be set so that he can participate fully in this investigation.
An appeal bond on a conviction of first-degree murder? - Mr.
Levy, get a grip on yourself.
Your Honor- Not only will there be no bond pending sentencing but as far as I'm concerned the pre-sentencing report is a mere formality.
Mr.
Hilton has been found guilty of killing a state's witness who testified in this very courtroom.
He did so in cold blood, and for pay.
Unless the pre-sentence report indicates that he is, in fact the Messiah come again he will very likely be sentenced to life, no parole by a Baltimore judge who, for once in his life gets to leave his office feeling that his job actually matters.
Mr.
Hilton, are you the second coming of our savior? - Excuse me? - Are you Jesus Christ come back to Earth? See you at sentencing.
Was it good for you, too? Mr.
Little, this is good to get-out-of-jail-free one time only on anything up to aggravated assault.
Why thank you, ma'am.
No, thank you.
A rare pleasure.
Time for the ceremonial eyefuck.
Come see me down the Cut, you punk-ass snitch.
I'll shove a shiv down your cocksucking throat! You think on it, Bird.
You think on Brandon while you doing that time? I'm gonna see you, man, I swear to God! Fuck that, I'll do you like a dog.
You really see him shoot the man? You really asking? But it's fucked because the man got to where he needed to be and she wasn't even worth it.
Daisy wasn't nothing past any other bitch, anyway, you know? And he did all that for her and in the end, it ain't amount to shit.
Fitzgerald said that there were no second acts in American lives.
Do you believe that? - Man, shit, we locked up.
We best not believe that, right? He's saying that the past is always with us.
And where we come from, what we go through how we go through it, all that shit matters.
I mean, that's what I thought he meant.
Go ahead.
Like at the end of the book, you know? Boats and tides and all.
It's like you can change up, right? You can say you're somebody new, you can give yourself a whole new story but what came first is who you really are and what happened before is what really happened.
And it don't matter that some fool say he different 'cause the only thing that can make you different is what you really do or what you really go through.
Like, you know, like all them books in his library.
Now, he fronting with all them books but if we pull one down off the shelf, ain't none of the pages ever been opened.
He got all them books, and he ain't read near one of them.
Gatsby, he was who he was, and he did what he did and 'cause he wasn't ready to get real with the story that shit caught up to him.
I think, anyway.
Sorry, homey.
You done with your trial? - All right then, let's take her on out.
Tomorrow.
I'm back with you tomorrow, Diggsy.
You got something else to do today? Yeah, last bit of business.
This is your business.
This is retirement.
And after today, I'm retired.
Talk when I say, not before.
Tovarich.
Serge, my nigger.
You're losing weight.
Shit.
You are down to nothing.
In this country, supermarkets are cathedrals.
I worry for you, buddy.
How your peoples, dog? Same, good.
You talk to the man about that other thing, right? Because I can get behind that business in a big way.
We will talk later.
Now, another business.
Right.
This the man with the raggedy-ass Camaro? Wasn't mine, it was my cousin's.
It wasn't all that raggedy.
Sorry.
Nicky is with us.
His cousin But family cannot be helped.
Who you telling? I got motherfucking nephews and in-laws fucking all my shit up all the time.
And it ain't like I can pop a cap in their ass and not hear about it Thanksgiving time.
For real, I'm living life with some burdensome niggers.
So what the fuck? You ain't pay my boy Cheese, and Cheese ain't paying me, right? I ain't talking about all the money in the world.
But it ain't like Cheese be in a position out on that corner to let your cuz exemplify shit, you feel? The man cut you some slack and soon every fucking-up white boy be on his titty.
We wanna pay what we owe.
The $2,700 anyway.
We're gonna have it soon enough.
Your man doubled it, though.
He also burned the car.
Now the blue book on that Camaro was $5,100.
Now, let me understand.
You gonna come up in here, having fucked up a package asking me to tell Cheese, who you fucked it up on to pay you out $2,400.
He gets to keep the Camaro.
Just how good a friend is this motherfucker to y'all? The Cheese ain't gonna be happy having to pay me back so I would advise y'all to give him some distance.
Just so he don't come back on my cousin.
Anyway, thanks for being straight on this.
Fool, if it wasn't for Serge here you and your cuz both would be cadaverous motherfuckers.
I went through INS, customs, even the State Department.
Nothing.
It's time, Jimmy.
You did what you could, right? Yeah, fuck it, let her go.
This one to the anatomy board in the morning.
Jane Doe on the paperwork.
Ain't right, Doc.
What the fuck ever is? You leave it to Avon he's gonna get some years off your sentence.
No doubt, knowing Avon.
It's all good, D.
Just show up, and say what Levy tells you to.
What the hell is wrong with you? I'm asking you.
Those hot shots, that was Avon.
I want you home, D.
You asked me to carry this.
I'm carrying it.
This is mine, right here, right now.
Boy, you ain't listening to me.
I am telling you- - Ma.
You remember we used to lived on Linden Avenue? Remember that house? I was about 6 or 7 years old.
I was playing on the porch.
Them twins came by, started picking on me, messing with me.
Remember that? I'm banging on the door, trying to get inside and you standing right there to open the door except you ain't letting me inside.
You told me to go back out there and fight them whether I lose or not.
Remember? - They beat the shit out of you.
Yeah.
Then you say to me: "Boy, I might have brung you into this world "but you the one who gonna have to live in it.
" Ma, I'm still here.
Me.
You gotta let me live like I need to live.
You tell Avon, Stringer, and Donette all of them, to leave me be.
All right, look, fuck y'all.
I need a drink.
Come on, we're almost through 2002.
No.
Tomorrow is another goddamn day, right? - Yeah.
They look thirsty, a round on me.
Yo, Mr.
Sobotka, friend to the working man master of the game.
How many votes we get down in Annapolis tonight, Frankie? - Been here long? - Since my hair was brown.
I was telling Chess about Benny.
Benny with the harelip? - That's a good one.
See, Benny was working the hole and he got hit with a shackle.
Chunk of steel clocked him good, but he didn't tell nobody.
Not until he came in here.
That's when Little Nose told Benny to call the union lawyer.
Paul Sevel? - Yeah.
God rest his soul.
So Benny calls Paul.
"Me been hit with a 'ackerel," Benny says.
"A mackerel? "You working frozen foods again?" Paul says.
"No, 'oddamn it, a 'ackerel.
" Then he slams the phone down.
"'Other'ucker on 'is way over 'ere.
"Says he can't undertan' me.
" Little Nose says, "Why he wanna do that? "Benny don't talk no fucking better in person.
" So that's it? Me and Cheese are straight? Yeah, you're straight.
That there's $2,400 for Princess.
She was worth more than that.
Dolo.
One for the bar, hon.
You win the lotto? If my old man can do it, who the hell says I can't? - What the fuck is wrong with you? - Nick, when I'm flush, I'm flush.
We ain't gonna live forever, right? - Next round's on me.
Not for me, I'm gonna head out.
Come on, Frank, belly up.
Take a rain check.
And that one as well, huh? - Makes 22.
All on the Talco line.
All with Horseface Pakusa working the ship.
We're on it then.
You gonna call Bunk? Detective Moreland is indisposed.
You with Daniels and them? - No.
We just parked the computer down there.
We're orphaned, man.
Orphaned? - Yeah.
Rawls is talking like if I don't come home with 14 clearances I can't come home at all.
Lester, too.
Where's the love, Jimmy? Where is the motherfucking love? - So what's up with you, man? - Nothing.
Nothing, huh? I'm done, Bunk.
Bird is my last piece of old business.
I got nothing new.
I was trying for an ID on this one and I can't even tell you why.
Just a way to pretend I was still a murder police, I guess.
Who gives a fuck, right? Elena and I are gonna try again.
Shit.
I'm done fucking myself up, Bunk.
I am done.
Come on, man, let's go home.
All right, man.
Over here, shitbird.
What the hell happened to you? - I fell down.
How many times? Let's walk.
Pop, I'm- - Walk with me, Zig.
Votes break for us, that pier comes back online by next spring.
More ships, more work.
Yeah, great.
What the fuck are you about? - What? Is that my son lighting hundred dollar bills like an asshole in a bar full of working stiffs? - What the fuck is that? - Just a smile.
A smile? - Yep, a smile.
You wanna hit me again, Pop, go ahead, take a shot.
Where you come by that kind of cash? You know you ain't had the days.
Definitely not.
It's 'cause my father's in the union.
Fuck that.
Seniority prevails, Zig.
It's the only way to keep it halfway honest.
I know, I ain't complaining.
I wish I could give you more.
You don't think I want to throw you more? - You throw plenty.
It's just, Christ, Zig.
If I'd listened to your mother, she's the one always talking about- It's cool.
You should do community college like your brother.
Pop, don't.
You wanna know what I remember? Do you? I remember you, and Uncle Jerry and Uncle Walt Pe-Pop all sitting around the kitchen table, talking shit about this gang and that gang who's better with the break-bulk who could turn it around faster, who's lazy.
Always a fucking argument, right? - Four Polacks, six opinions.
I remember when youse all went down to picket them scabs at Covington Piers how Jackie Taylor got run over by a police car in the middle of that whole goddamn mess.
I remember when the Paceco fell during that windstorm.
You remember, right? Killed Fat Rick dead.
Yeah, what else you remember? Everything.
So tell me, Mr.
"Back In The Day" what are we doing down here with the wharf rats in the middle of the goddamn night? Beats the fuck outta me.
Every one of those Post-its is a can that disappears when it's being offloaded.
The yellow slips, they show up again with legitimate cargo intact and are re-entered so you figure those are honest mistakes.
But the pink and the green, those cans never come back.
They stay out of the computer for good.
And the pink one, like the can full of dead girls they're all from the same shipping line, Talco and on all of them, the same checker, this guy Thomas Pakusa he goes by Horseface, he's the one working.
You went at him already, right? We grand juried his ass, but that motherfucker didn't blink.
You wanna hit the head? Get yourself right, Detective? No, I'm good.
The point is, we have a pattern here.
What they're doing eliminates almost all of the paper trail.
As long as they can get a truck past the outbound lanes and there's a dozen ways to do that, the only thing they leave behind is a little telltale in the computer.
A box comes off the ship, flashes for a few moments and blip then it's gone.
Our target is supposed to be Sobotka, right? I mean, on paper anyway.
What you're telling me is that it's better than a fair bet that he actually is a target in Bunk's murders.
Maybe we can fold our investigation into yours, Lieutenant.
And put my ass in the air with 14 open homicides that might never clear? - The bosses wouldn't blame you for that.
I wouldn't shine either.
I'm using what we do with this detail to get a major case squad going.
I come up out of here with all those open files, it doesn't smell as sweet.
So what's the next move on this? - We clone the computer and start watching what's happening on the docks in real time.
Shit.
Yo, D.
Just wine, huh? I'm not drinking much anymore.
No Jameson's? Maybe a quick fuck with the waitress, then.
Okay, I deserve that one, too even though I'm not doing much of that anymore either.
Anything else? - I'm sorry.
I don't know where it still comes from.
It's been a year.
You deserve to be angry.
What's the point, though? How's work? What, so we talk about everything in my life that pisses you off? - Drinking, women, the work? - Just trying to make conversation.
I retired.
Excuse me? It's boats, not bodies.
On a good day, I catch crabs and count seagulls.
That's not you.
It wasn't me.
It wasn't me not to drink, or dog around either.
A lot of things weren't me.
I want another chance.
How about a fuck for the road instead? - How you doing? - Okay.
You unload this, you gotta ditch trucks and trailers both.
Make it look like it was a hijack, all right? Niko.
If you want, I will pay you straight or Eton can pay in heroin.
Wholesale.
Turn it around, you can make $60,000 or $70,000.
Nicky, he's offering, like, three, four times the value.
I'm out on this.
Nick, even if we walk it up to White Mike we can make $30,000 or $35,000.
Nicky, come on, man.
Half in cash, half in dope.
Nicky, I can turn that package around, no problem.
No, Zig, I got it.
Nicky, you don't know- You hear me? I said I fucking got this one.
Stay at home and watch cartoons.
Let me handle this shit for the both of us, all right? You fucking walking home or what? Hey, girl.
What do we do with the day? - Me? - I gotta pick up the boys from the sitter.
Okay, great.
They're gonna be coming back here.
Michael has piano this afternoon.
No problem, we'll do something after that.
Maybe we go by my place, pick up some things.
I don't want the boys to know that you were here.
It's gonna get them hoping.
So you need to leave.
Look at this sorry shit.
Motherfuckers not appreciate nothing that comes to them free.
I'll take it in the back.
Maybe they got some duct tape to fix it.
D, right? - Yeah.
You can't be in here now, man.
Yo, man, y'all get any final calls this week, yo? - Yeah, we got some.
I didn't see any out there.
All right, give me a minute.
Let me finish up right here real quick, and I'll go and get one for you.
Hey, y'all.
What's up? I know you got my motherfucking cigs, yo.
You trying to curb me, yo? - Come on.
What's in there?
Something in particular? - Funeral.
I'm sorry.
No, funeral, you know? No, I mean, I'm sorry for your loss.
Yeah.
That's a popular one.
Who was it that passed, a relation? - No, we worked together.
I see.
A professional relationship.
Yeah, professional.
I mean, we wasn't all that tight, but he was still my nigger.
I think I'm on it.
Follow me.
Hell, yeah, this what I'm talking about.
That gat and grip thing over there sells a lot.
We can do that in white, or red, or pink carnations.
Pink? - Your boy was too fierce for the pink? No, he wasn't all that.
But when you stand with a nigger, you stand with him to the end otherwise you ain't nothing yourself.
True that.
How did your boy fall? Hung himself.
Over at The Cut, strung himself up.
Judge ran wild on his ass, gave him 20.
I guess he couldn't handle all those years, you know? It's a weak-ass nigger when you think about it.
But it ain't no reason to drag his name down no further, you know? I'll tell you what.
Let me get something in strong colors.
Red, black, whatever.
But make it look like one of the Towers down on Franklin Terrace.
You know, the high-rises.
You want the arrangement to look like a high-rise housing project? Hell, yeah.
And put the numbers 221 in big-ass numbers on the front.
All right? He used to have that Fremont Tower for a while.
else you want it to say? Like what? "Rest in peace," "In Remembrance," something like that? Something that says how you feel about the loss.
Look, man, fuck it, all right? Just Just make sure the Towers look like they do, all right? All right.
Thanks.
You cloned a what? - A computer.
We can watch how the cargo comes off the ship in real time try to follow the contraband, see where it leads.
We're running a 25-murder-a-month MASH Unit here and you guys wanna slow things down a bit, and do a bit of brain surgery.
If Rawls comes walking through here and sees the two of you hunched over playing video games on 14 open murders, he's gonna blow! That is exactly why we asked Lt.
Daniels to set us up at his off-site, over in the southeast.
They're looking at the dock boys for other shit, drugs mostly.
Daniels, who used to be in Narcotics? - Yeah.
If Daniels has a detail set up already, maybe he takes the murders, too.
He ain't no fool, Jay.
He's just giving us a room with no view.
That was approval, right? He gave approval to go ahead with this.
I don't know.
What's next? Next is for us to get them dock boys back to thinking that we've gone away.
I mean, we spooked them right good with that grand jury shit.
If we're gonna set up on them, they need to think we ain't gonna be a problem no more.
How are they gonna think that? No, see, that ain't the way it works.
It ain't.
'Cause I'm the one out here all day taking the chance, right? Police roll up into this bitch, it ain't gonna be you that catch no charge.
So, least-wise, the thing you need to do is lay all that good shit down on an even split.
Come Friday, me and my niggers done sold all that shit off you come past and get paid.
That's how I'm at with it.
Hey, Frog.
Come here.
No, seriously.
Come here.
First of all, and I don't know how to tell you this without hurting you deeply first of all, you happen to be white.
I'm talking raised-on-Rapolla-Street white where your mama used to drag you down to St.
Casimir's just like all the other little pisspants on the block.
Second, I'm also white.
Not hang-on-the-corner- don't-give-a-fuck white but Locust-Point-I.
B.
S.
Local-47 white.
I don't work without no fucking contract and I don't stand around listening to horseshit excuses like my cousin Ziggy, who, by the way is still owed money by you and all your down, street-wise whiggers.
You go in your pocket, come up with $500 in advance and the $210 that you owe to Zig you can work my package.
This is the shit you had out here last week.
The dimes that Moochie was slinging? The shit was good.
Moochie sold out quick.
All right.
I'm saying, I'm gonna send my man around with the dollars.
Keep it real.
Whatever.
Everything to your satisfaction? - Yeah, you on it.
Prison people taking it that that boy hung his own self, right? Seems so.
My cousin always works clean.
None of my business, I know but did your man Avon even know about it? You're on your own here? You're right.
It ain't none of your business.
And if I were you I wouldn't want a word of this mess up in Avon's ear.
Baltimore niggers off the hook.
I swear.
All y'all.
You better get up in this before it get cold.
This shit is good.
My man, that bullshit ain't on you.
It ain't, man.
Up in here, D knew he had to stand on his own.
You know this.
Man, fuck him.
He knew when he hung himself how we was gonna carry it.
He knew when he did that, that we were gonna be in a moment like this, right now.
He knew that.
That nigger did that shit to hurt me, man.
But, you know, man, D was just fucking weak.
I tried to crimp him along since he was a shorty, nigger.
I tried to bring him up, bring him along- - You were real good to him.
I was.
Man, it's sad, what happened.
That shit is sad.
But the boy almost rolled on you that one time.
You know, he get to thinking he can't do the years in here he might've could've rolled again.
Who knows? I'm just saying it might've been for the best, you know? His name is Head.
Dick Head.
Check this out.
Put your finger right there.
Nice.
Nice, right? - Fellows.
We need a bug.
Something that can stand up to the pressures of the modern urban crime environment.
Let me show you.
Okay, fellows, this is the real deal.
Smaller than a 22.
And it's got a clear channel.
Sturdy as hell.
You get this bad boy within it sounds like Chuck Thompson doing play-by-play.
How much? - $1,500.
But seeing as you're sworn officers, the police discount drops it to $1,250.
You in? - Am I in? The man just said $1,250, Herc.
Can we give it a test run? A test drive in the modern urban crime environment? Yeah, leave me your credit card and take it for 48 hours.
Change your mind, bring it back.
No problem.
Let me consult my partner.
Of course.
You got a credit card? - Don't you? - It's maxed to the max, man.
We've been doing hand-to-hands for a while now and we ain't no higher up on the ladder and on those corners.
We're just gonna use it for a couple days, get what we need, and bring it back.
I gave your man some room, that's all.
You gave him a home.
Det.
Moreland's target looks to be the same as yours.
No.
Yes.
You could take these 14 homicides and turn that half-assed detail you got going into something that matters.
I'll be honest.
You solve the murders, I'll love you for the stats.
And if you don't, I've made it so the Homicide Unit doesn't have to bear the whole brunt of a lower clearance rate.
It's win-win for me.
No.
Come on, Lieutenant.
A good turn here will not be forgotten.
I'm trying to dig myself out of the basement with something simple and clean here.
Drug arrests, maybe a prostitution bust if I get lucky and I'm out from under with Burrell.
Sorry, Colonel.
You keep the murders, and my ass stays covered.
Smarter than he looks.
Where's your friend? - Who's that? - The black fellow, the Homicide guy.
Case is done, for all I know.
Yeah? You all didn't go for nothing, and no one on the ship did either.
So, he sent me back and moved on to new business.
So you back to the usual then? - Yeah, the usual.
Except I won't be around Patapsco or North Point much.
Starting tomorrow, I'm down at the Fairfield Terminals.
Fairfield? Yeah, bosses want another car patrolling the chemical plants.
Because of terrorism, I guess.
You're too pretty for the Fairfield Piers, darling.
You need to be uptown here with us.
You got stripes in the Southeast and can't pull Valchek's spy van to work his own detail? Man, I've never seen that thing.
Snug.
As a bug.
In a rug.
Let's go.
This shit is hypnotic.
Boring, too.
You make a show of it? Let everyone working see me in that radio car.
Is that the Valparaiso? It ain't a Talco Line ship, doesn't have Horseface working.
Probably wasting half a day watching it offload.
Yeah, we should be at the bar by now.
Nothing's wasted.
I've been getting a feel for this shit.
How it plays and works without the dirt.
So when they lose a can- - I see it go.
Gentlemen.
Ladies.
The future is now.
To bring goods to an exploding global economy and to deliver those goods faster, cheaper and safer modern robotics do much of the work in the world's largest seaport, Rotterdam.
Moving cargo is a traditional strength of the Dutch who shuttle more freight in fewer man-hours than any port in the world.
And now, the Dutch have modeled the future of cargo management.
Completely containerized cargo arrives and departs on ships a third of a mile long, 24 hours a day, with short turnaround.
Smart card technology provides greater security and improved accountability, with no need for unreliable human surveillance.
Frog, man, we light five caps is all, man.
I'm saying, you getting all ridiculous over bits and pieces.
You feeling me? Nigger, it's the principle of the thing.
It's like you in a store working the register and at the end of the day, the shitjust add up.
Mad Dog gonna roll through here tomorrow with the re-up and I want to have the package right for once.
Hey, Carver.
Isn't technology the fucking bomb? and global positioning systems guide each container to its proper spot, on board or on the docks while state-of-the-art-computers track shipments in every part- Some of the systems you're seeing have already been upgraded.
Rotterdam now works 350 million tons of cargo annually leaving Singapore a distant second.
What kind of man-hours are the stevedores clocking over there? I don't have those figures handy.
I'm sorry.
But Rotterdam does employ 4,000 people.
That's right.
That's efficiency, Nat.
By eliminating some of the more dangerous work the Rotterdam technologies have reduced employee work-related accidents and injuries by 60%.
I think we can all be happy with that, can't we? Question? Yes? The GPS readings, are they exact You can't get hurt if you ain't working, right? No, they work with all kinds of cargo, in all kinds of weather.
Coming.
Hey, Jackie.
String.
You, too? We got enough food for three weeks right now.
How's Brianna? Is she back there? What's up, little man? How you holding up? Bri.
Nicky boy, you get days this week? - No.
Four ships on Thursday.
You could've pulled a day for sure.
That's your half on the last two packages, plus what Frog owed you on your own shit.
It's all there, cuz.
What the fuck is wrong with you, smiley? - Nothing.
What did Frog say? "Here's a couple of hundred extra, make the little goof happy"? The packages were my thing, Nick.
Fuck, if you ain't handle that business better, too.
Zig, we're making money.
It's your move, Nicky.
Fuck it.
I got other issues right now.
Paternity? Priscilla Katlow.
Jesus, Zig.
You knocked up Prissy Katlow? I only fucked her once.
Christ, everybody down the point fucked her the once.
How do you know it's yours? You call this lawyer? Figured I'd get drunk first.
That's a good plan.
Russians? - Lot of girls.
Pretty ones.
Most of them had some kind of accent anyway.
Shardene's friend hooked us up good.
Who's in charge? You got the club people, I guess.
And there's some woman I've seen go into the back room.
She looks a little bit older.
I couldn't get close enough to say much about her.
She looks about 40.
Grab any ass, Prez? What I'm saying is, I've sorted it out for us.
I have.
For us? When I was in the basement, it made sense to quit.
It did.
But once Burrell reached out- But Burrell is the one that you crossed.
He's not likely to forget that, is he? Not to mention what he knows about you from the bad old days.
Fools half your age are gonna be Major and Colonel and you'll still think that scratching out a case or two will save you.
It isn't about the casework, I know that.
Just today, Rawls calls me up to CID asks me to take his homicides from the dead girls on that shipping container.
I told him, no shot.
That case is a loser.
If I'm looking out for number one I'm gonna bring Burrell exactly what he asked for and exactly what he needs to make Stan Valchek go away.
No more, no less.
I'm playing their game this time.
Look, it's one thing you taking a run at this dredging thing.
Fucked-up as you are, we can let that slide for a while but now, you're asking too much.
One more year, Nat.
Not for me, for the fucking union.
The election's been scheduled.
You knew last year, when we gave you the votes that this time would be Ott's turn.
You knew that.
So Ott runs next time.
He'll take that year and the next.
It's our turn, Frank.
Black, White, what's the difference, Nat? Until we get that fucking canal dredged, we're all niggers, pardon my French.
Or Polacks, pardon mine.
You know what I'm saying, this ain't about Ott.
I just want one more year to finish what I started here.
Then Ott stays Secretary-Treasurer for the next two, no problem.
Think about it.
Hello? - Brucie, baby.
Frankie Sobotka, how's it hanging? - You talk to the presiding officers yet? Lot of girls.
Lot of muscle.
Zig, Jesus, get off me, you jerk.
When did you get served with these? - I got them in the mail this morning.
In the mail? - Yeah, this morning.
When Pokey Barber got hit with paternity a sheriff had to come to his house and serve him with papers.
Dolores, can I use the bar phone? - Who are you calling? - The lawyer on this piece of bullshit.
What? Ain't no fucking law firm open in the middle of the goddamn night.
Shyster, Shyster and Shyster.
He got you, Zig.
Who got me? Maui? Love child, never meant to be Love child, born in poverty Love child, never meant to be There's no restroom in the lobby, and if you're not an approved visitor I just don't have the authorization.
Okay.
Tell me something.
When you have to go, where do you go? Excuse me, sir? Are you a resident? Sorry.
Wrong building.
Sixth floor, all of them.
Thomas "Horseface" Pakusa.
Slated to be the ship-runner on Talco Line's Esmeralda.
ETA, noon tomorrow, Berth - So we're on.
We're gonna need help with surveillance.
On the docks especially, since our faces are known down there.
I can reach out to Greggs and Prez, maybe.
Bring them in on it.
Should we tell the Lieutenant? Right now, the less he knows he's involved in the murder investigation the happier he'll feel.
New truck? What the fuck, we're making money here, right? - Hell, yeah.
For real.
This guy's some kind of supplier.
Snap some shots of the truck tags.
You got more for me? - I got ifyou got for me, right? Got to say, your thing is tight.
Best around here in a long while.
Fuck! I'm with you on this, man All right, dawg.
Come on, asshole, what the fuck's wrong with you? Keep it fucking moving.
Jesus Christ! No! I cleared it with KGA, we'll be working off of Channel 6.
Prez, you got the eyeball on the outbound truck gate.
Need you to set up so you can move in either direction on Broening Highway.
Bunk, you set up on Newkirk and Broening.
Me and Russell will be on the computer.
That leaves the terminal itself to Kima.
They might not know my face, but I sure as shit can't hang down there.
I'm thinking I should borrow that CG&E truck from Narcotics.
Slap on a hard hat, pick up a clipboard.
What if they're not sneaking anything off this time? What then? Tragically, you will have wasted another day in a life you've already misspent in the service of the city of Baltimore.
Nothing's alive in these, right? - If they don't go hot to a truck you go back in the stacks and bang on them to make sure.
I trust these Greek fucks with nothing.
How you hanging? - Good.
I'm good.
You ain't been working much.
Stay close, Nick.
Don't do anything I wouldn't do.
Jesus on the main line Tell him what you want Oh, Jesus on the main line Tell him what you want Jesus on the main line Tell him what you want Call him up and tell him what you want Ifyou want salvation Tell him what you want Oh, ifyou want salvation Tell him what you want Ifyou want salvation Tell him what you want Call him up and tell him what you want Oh, call him up, call him up Tell him what you want Oh, call him up, call him up Tell him what you want Call him up, call him up Tell him what you want Jesus on the main line You did the 221? Shit look tight.
Sorry for the loss.
You all sent him off right, though.
As good a homecoming as I been to.
You been to your share, man, I know.
No doubt.
Of course, this is neither the time nor the place but I thought I might get at you for a moment.
Got a proposition here.
Go ahead to the car, man.
Ain't exactly talking out of turn when I say that, uh, Westside dope been weak for a while now.
Every dope fiend in the city knows that Avon been putting out piss, calling it shit.
The thing is, y'all sitting on some of the best real estate in the city.
The Terrace, the low-rises, the avenue corners.
Respecting the fact that you're known to have a way with your words when are you gonna tell me something I don't know? Let me put a point on it.
My shit is right, String.
I got dope coming straight into Baltimore, and the shit is raw.
You got half the Westside coming over to Fallsway twice a day because Eastside dope be kicking the shit out of Westside dope.
You connected? - This shit is straight off the damn boat.
I ain't even going to New York except for my coke.
Ain't no need.
Thing is, y'all got the best territory, and no kind of product.
I got the best product, but could stand a little more territory so you see where this thing needs to go.
Now you know Avon fought real hard for them Towers.
We took down the Rayford brothers, Big Dennis Woodson, I mean- This shit is just business, String.
Buy for a dollar, sell for two.
That's all it need be.
You got the Towers, I got what goes in them.
Later for all that bullshit.
I'll talk to Avon.
You do that.
Come on, I can read a budget summary.
There's nothing in there for dredging.
Shortfall in revenues.
The governor's looking to limit bond issues.
But the grain pier is still in there.
And the rest is just talk? Talk is good, Frank.
Talk is a start.
Talk is your fucking job description.
Yak.
Yak.
Yak.
Blah.
Blah.
Blah.
That's like saying all the checkers do is punch numbers into a computer.
Your son, the oldest one, he goes to what school? - Jason's at Princeton.
Princeton.
And after he graduates, he's gonna do what? - Whatever he wants.
Right.
You sent him to Princeton to do whatever the fuck he wants.
You know, back when we were kids Danny Hare's father stole a couple cases of cognac off a ship.
Except when he gets it home, it ain't cognac, it's Tang.
Tang? - Just invented.
TV said it's what the astronauts drank on their way to the moon.
You drink it - You could be an astronaut, too.
All summer long, that shit was all the Hare kids drank.
Tang with breakfast, Tang with lunch Tang when they woke up scared in the middle of the night.
What do you think they grew up to be? Stevedores.
What the fuck you think? Something tells me Jason DiBiago will grow up and squeeze a buck the way his old man did.
You're out of line, Frank.
My great-grandfather was a knife sharpener.
Pushed a grinding stone up Preston Street to Alice-Ann one leg shorter than the other from pumping the wheel.
Since he didn't want his sons to push the goddamn thing he made sure my grandfather finished high school and my old man went to any college that would take him.
You're talking history, right? I'm talking now.
Down here, it's still: "Who's your old man?" 'til you got kids of your own.
Then it's, "Who's your son?" But after the horror movie I've seen today Robots! Piers full of robots! My kid will be lucky if he's punching numbers five years from now.
While it don't mean shit that I can't take my steak knives to DiBiago and sons it breaks my heart that there's no future for the Sobotkas on the waterfront.
Here, Brucie.
I think they're your size.
I'm operating under the assumption that because of your relentless diligence the funding for the grain pier is gonna pass the assembly.
But I'm also talking about the canal.
So you're gonna talk about the canal the Muldoons who run the old line state are gonna talk about it until some day, some way, that motherfucker gets dredged and we get some ships in here.
Bring it down! - Got one that disappeared.
Get the container number? -11-37 to 12-14.
Go ahead, Lester.
We got one, you prepared to copy? - Send it.
Zulu, Tango, Golf, Romeo Copy that, I've got it in the yard.
-11-99.
-11-99.
We got a live one.
Be up.
What am I looking for? - Stand by on that.
Be advised, I've got a White male, orange safety vest blue overalls.
He's hooking the truck onto the What do you call it? Copy that.
What next? One of two things.
The driver takes it through checkout in which case it may be that Horseface entered the wrong container number and they find it there.
Or it goes out to Bobtail Lane.
If it does that, they're doing the dirt.
to 12-14.
Kima, keep the eyeball until it clears the yard.
Advise if it stops at the checkout point, or goes straight out.
Copy.
the checkout.
Copy.
-11-37 to Target's coming at you, you see it? I got him on Broening, heading west towards the city.
Copy, 11-37 to 11-34.
Target approaching your I got him going straight on Newkirk.
He's all yours, Bunk.
Copy.
-11-34, you got the eyeball.
Copy.
-11-34.
Go ahead, 34.
He went to ground off of Newkirk.
Some kind of warehouse.
Wait one.
I'll swing back, get a 20.
Be advised, it is a warehouse.
Pyramid Inc.
5605 Newkirk.
Copy that.
Brianna, man, she putting it on you? Avon, you knew he was using? I seen it, but I didn't see it.
I mean, he came up off that shit then we did our thing with the guard, and I thought Fuck.
We did our thing with the homegoing, man.
I mean, it came off nice.
Yeah? - Yeah, everybody showed.
How did Brianna do? - Rough.
Don't nobody want shit like this to happen, man.
If I'd have known the boy was gonna be doing shit like that - you know what I mean? - What are the prison people saying? That he just hung himself like that? Just tied a rope around a knob, and sat his ass down.
How the fuck you gonna stop a man from doing some shit like that? What are you gonna do? Stay with him every damn minute, every day you can? He gonna find a way if he wants to.
It ain't on you.
It ain't on you.
I would tell you if it was.
What's up with that other thing, man? Still shit, man.
Your man in Atlanta don't know what raw is.
We gonna discount it.
Do I look like Kmart to you, man? - I'm saying, I mean- - What are you saying? That's ridiculous.
Re-package it and sell it off.
You know, Proposition Joe came to the funeral.
Pulled me aside.
He's got a smoker.
Everybody knows he's got a smoker and he wants to share, if we cut him a slice of the Towers.
You know, it's a thought- - It's not even a thought, man.
No.
Let me tell you something.
We're gonna get through all this, you hear me? - I know.
All of it.
Anything come out? If there were girls in that can, they're still inside.
Your DNRs go where? - Phones for dockworkers local.
Offices, personal phones for a couple of union officials.
Look here, 9581737 is listed to Thomas Pakusa.
On February 4th, and March 16th our Mr.
Pakusa received a call from Frank Sobotka's cell phone.
And both times, he works a Talco Line ship the next day.
And both times, a can goes missing in the computer.
Pretty good argument for a conspiracy case.
Conspiracy to do what? - Smuggle shit.
Smuggle what? For starters, how about bringing girls here for purposes of prostitution? - That one we know about.
You need to do better for a wiretap.
Read your annotated code.
Wiretap Statute, Subsection 10, 406 designates crimes where telephonic communication can be intercepted in the great state of Maryland.
Prostitution? You mean, you can tap a guy's phone if he's selling drugs but if he's selling women, he's out of bounds? That's the law.
Honey, I'm home.
Start looking at the two-bedroom joints.
We can pay.
How? - Got a new job.
Off the docks? Three, four days a week.
Warehouse foreman for this Greek guy.
He owns an appliance store down the avenue in Highland Town.
I can work it around the hours that I pick up at the docks.
How much, Nick? Come here.
Like $500 a week.
Maybe more.
But steady.
You know, we can count on it.
Between what you make with them scissors and this we can pay down the truck and still have enough left over for someplace nice out in the county.
$1,500.
$1,250, with the police discount.
It just couldn't stand up to the modern urban crime environment.
All right, slow up.
This is it.
It's listed to Nicholas Andrew Sobotka, 1485 Reynold Street.
Sobotka? - That's what it says here.
That mean anything to you? Beavis, that's the name of the guy we're supposed to be working.
Frank Sobotka.
But we got Nicholas.
How many fucking Sobotkas can there be, even down here in Polack town? - You know what this means? - What? It means old fuzzy Dunlop here is somewhat worse for wear, I admit it's really gonna start paying off as a confidential informant.
No fucking way.
Are you out $1,250? Because linking a street-level drug connect to our main target has to be worth $200 for starters.
Listen, if I try to register him, Daniels will smell a rat.
He trusts you, Carv.
You got that trustworthy look.
It's you, Lester.
Got to be you.
Me? - We need to bring in the Lieutenant his detail and all the manpower and toys that go with it.
And Daniels listens when you talk.
You got the smell of wisdom on you, brother.
We all got roles to play.
What's your role? I'm just a humble motherfucker with a big-ass dick.
You give yourself too much credit.
Okay, then.
I ain't all that humble.
I'll be goddamned.
I swear to God, if he plays that goddamn song one more time I'm gonna clock his ass good.
You can take him, Zig.
He just looks big.
Who the fuck is he? All pussy.
You're a legend of the docks, Zig.
A fucking legend.
You think I can take him? You can take him.
Man down, berth five.
Who? New Charles.
Ambo's on the way.
Jesus Christ.
Night work with break-bulk.
I hate this shit.
You guys gonna move this thing or what? - Jesus.
Fuck.
Ain't supposed to move a guy when he's hurt.
We'll remember that when you hit the number.
Quit pulling your dicks and get this thing off of me.
One, two, three.
Charlie, here.
Take a drag.
That's the ambo you're hearing, Charlie.
Right over there.
Don't worry, kid, you're still on the clock.
Frank, how does the leg look? - Which leg is that now? - Sir, can you hear my voice? Squeeze my hand.
Let's get him into the ambulance.
You need to clear the way for us, guys.
And you followed the can? - Right to the warehouse.
Surveillance set up? - Kima is on it tonight.
This case needs to be worked, Lieutenant.
I know it began for you as a bullshit detail but this Sobotka's into some shit that needs to be worked by good police.
The DNRs, the cloned computer.
We've got the pattern.
Rawls came to me.
Asked if I would take the homicides.
You should.
Those girls in the can really suffocated.
They really died in that fucking box.
You pick this case up, you might eat those open murders.
But you let it pass you got to ask yourself how you want to live your day-to-day.
From the guys in 15-14.
He should be all right.
You know how he got the name New Charles? First day of work was the same day the Paceco dropped a hatch cover on Charlie Bannion.
Had to clean up old Charlie with a shovel.
Ever since then, New Charles.
He's gonna lose the leg.
Where's the money from? I got your murders.
But what I need from you, I get.
No bullshit, no arguments.
No arguments.
You're wasting all the batteries.
So? Mom, he's wasting all the batteries.
You two get along or I'm gonna take that tent down right now.
Snitch.
Punk.
Squirrel.
Mope.
Shut up.
Who teaches them this stuff? It's my turn, you just had it.
Elena.
No.
I don't trust you.
I can care about you and I can want us to be friends and if you give me enough time, Jimmy maybe I will actually want you to be happy.
But how the hell am I supposed to trust you? Mom, quick, it's a spider.
It's a big, hairy one.
Oh, my gosh.
Come on, Mom.
But if the case does come together, I would at least have Rawls as a rabbi.
It could still work for me.
Listen to yourself.
I love the job, Marla.
I can't help it.
The job doesn't love you.
You know what I love? The mind that's always a step ahead of me the person who never stops thinking it through.
That's what I fell in love with first.
Do you know what I fell in love with first? Do you? Your ambition.
Where did that man go?
Hi, we're not here.
Leave a message.
Elena, you gotta talk to me.
Last call.
Why is she such a pain in the ass? - Excuse me.
Hey, pal.
It's all right.
One more, please.
Save some for the other customers, okay? - Pour it! - You ain't getting behind the wheel, right? - There's a cab picking me up.
I'm looking you in the eye, Gus.
I'm telling you, I'm not driving a car tonight.
Bite me.
Yeah, coffee.
What's with the hand? - Just a scratch.
Get me some eggs, will you? - Can I get a scrapple with that? - You can get anything you want.
Oh, God! Look at him, all high and mighty.
You ain't gonna let that shit ride, are you? After what he did? I'd truck his ass, if it was me.
He's built kind of solid, though.
Maui ain't all that.
It's the clothes that give him size, Zig.
You think? - His ass is candy, Zig.
You, you're the legend of the docks.
Truck him with your best punch and then just walk the fuck away.
Officially, I've put us on the hook for 14 open homicides.
So either we bring in a hell of a case or I'm as big a fool as Col.
Rawls thinks I am.
That sounded a little desperate.
Not entirely.
Lester, enlighten Miss Pearlman as to the status of our investigation.
You said this case needed a drug connect for a wiretap, right? Come take a look at this.
That's the DNR log on the phone listed to the warehouse where we tracked the suspect container.
It shows outgoing calls to numbers that connect to Petey Dixon Proposition Joe Stewart, and "White Mike" McArdle among other traffickers on the East Side.
Which supports surveillance of known dealers coming and leaving the warehouse.
Also, some surveillance shots and matching mug shot photos from Southeast DEU, which tie White Mike to street dealers that we've already made controlled buys from.
Assuming exhaustion, that's one tap on the warehouse phone.
What's your PC on the truck driver? - Sergei Malatov: resident alien, Ukrainian origin.
No criminal history here.
We ID'd him from the contract on the DAC truck rental.
He was nice enough to give the truck rental people his cell number.
And phone records show a call placed to the warehouse at the time Kima observed him on the docks using the cell phone.
Checking the DNR log's history we matched seven other calls from that cell phone to dates and times when a container disappeared from a Talco ship.
Anything else? Tap 2 feels a bit thin.
How about Nicholas Sobotka of the On a Cl's information, Herc and Carver followed him from a drug meet along the Fayette Street strip back to his parents' South Baltimore row home.
When we ran that phone number from that address through the DNR at our warehouse, we got nothing.
But when we checked it against the cell phone of our friend, Sergei - we got a couple of hits.
Sobotka's your stated target, right? This is a nephew, and from the look of it he's involved in street dealing as much as smuggling.
But right now, this case feels like a lot more than Frank Sobotka.
No offense to Stan Valchek.
Okay.
I admit, you've got PC.
On the warehouse phone and on the trucker's cell phone, too.
Now what have you got for exhaustion? Any possible informants? - Nothing on the docks.
No one we can buy weight with.
Surveillance? - That got us to the front door but it's not gonna get us inside that warehouse.
Start typing.
I'll call the judge.
Ham and cheese sandwich, and one of them Frappuccino drinks.
I hear Charles lost his leg.
What? Frappuccino? What the fuck is that? He's all pussy, Zig.
Cold cock him.
Take him, Zig.
Now's the time.
What do you know? The pissant's got some grapes on him.
Banana, too.
Fucking shit! - Take us up.
Son of a bitch! God damn it! Fuck you! You big, stupid, fucking oaf! Fuck you, Maui.
You're the fucking wimp.
No, fuck you, Maui! - Stay there.
Fuck you! God damn it! Any of you fucks try to help him down, you'll be up there with him.
Bad advice! You motherfuckers gave me bad advice! Shit.
What the hell are you wearing? - No one mentioned all the perks.
Lacrosse? What, a brother can't run with a stick? Jim Brown was an all-American midfielder at Syracuse.
You putting yourself beside Jim Brown? Lester, I'm just saying I thought you were born in pinstripes.
Lieutenant, I was under the impression that when detailed against his will to some backwards-ass, no-count, out-in-the-districts lost-ball-in-tall-grass drug investigation a veteran police of means and talent can wear whatever the fuck he damn well pleases.
Up to a point.
Nice shot.
Thank you.
It's a hell of a thing to take a downtown police and lose him in a cross-town world.
Take that one over there.
I'm homesick already.
I don't know what you're laughing at.
You can kiss my ass.
You should see what your boy tried to pull today.
Fucking Ziggy.
What are you looking for? - Can't find the fucking bills.
End of the month, everything's hanging.
We got anything for the Greeks? Wednesday, the Caspia over at Patapsco.
Nicky'll go get the slips tomorrow.
No wonder I couldn't find them.
You use them as bookmarks.
Let me ask you something important.
You like fake tits? I can't decide.
Thus far, I'm undecided on fake tits.
I thought I knew what paperwork was.
But what you all go through, to listen to someone else's phone calls You all cannot spell for shit.
Would we be police if we could? - Who's the duty judge this week? - Vanderwal.
You think he'll sign? No problem, if you clean his garage first.
Or wash his windows, maybe.
Fucking Vanderwal.
Wash windows? - Are these the affiants, Miss Pearlman? - Yes, Your Honor.
Are you willing to affirm that the information offered in this affidavit is entirely true to the best of your knowledge? Yes, Your Honor.
Yes, Your Honor.
Absolutely.
Upstairs, gentlemen.
Third floor, back bedroom.
Sash installation.
And then if you can give the windows a wash Thank you.
It's a good thing I took the Sergeant's test.
Fuck, my knee.
Sorry.
First name? - First name: Francis.
Spell the last name on the account.
S- O-B-O-T-K-A.
Yeah, that's it.
It's a business address.
You've been flagged.
Flagged? It says right here on the computer.
Yeah? You're kidding me.
I don't have any more information on that now.
Whatever, okay.
The check's on its way tomorrow.
Cross my heart.
Horse, if you don't pay your phone bill for three months, what happens? No phone.
Okay, so I'm 90 days late on my cell phone, but they let me go even before I mail the check in.
I ask the nice lady in the billing department why that is.
You know what she says? - I've been flagged.
Flagged? She says it's on the computer when my account comes on: "Do not disconnect for non-payment.
" "Flagged," what the fuck is that? What am I, special? Maybe you been touched by an angel.
Told you, B.
Tumbleweeds be blowing through this motherfucker.
Like the fiends all cleaned themselves up.
No, that ain't it, man.
Word is out, we just selling dog shit up in here, man.
Damn.
Pud, how we doing? - Slow as a white man in slippers.
All right, later.
We dying 'cause these dusty-ass fiends done found the real someplace else.
It's that bullshit, man.
You two got a reason to be here? - We're just going about our business.
Keep moving.
Fake-ass police.
Where he get that uniform at? Kmart? He wouldn't even be all chest-out if we had some people up in this bitch.
Shit is fucked up, man.
Damn, junior, you had a night.
Even for a legendary motherfucker like yourself- Drop it.
What is wrong with you, man? 'Cause Elena didn't open up the door for your ass you just gonna let all this shit fly out? Come on, Jimmy.
Lighten up.
Come and get me.
So, you guys going for a wiretap on that port case? They got every swinging dick with a shield on that detail but me.
You jealous, bitch? I'd rather be back in Homicide.
I'd take your place in a heartbeat.
Why? - That floater showing up in your dreams? - No, it's not just her.
I mean, who am I, Captain Chesapeake? I need to get off that boat, Bunk.
I need to do a case.
I mean, if I'm not gonna If I'm no good for If that's all you want, just go and ask Rawls.
He'll put you on this straightaway.
Yeah, why wouldn't he? after which I tell Horse to go down the southeast lot and steal the most expensive thing he can drive, which he does.
And we box it up and ship it to every port you can name.
Where is it now? Somewhere between New Orleans and the West Coast.
How's that for your kid brother? You said you were gonna bring something over? Just this.
Read it.
What is it? - A confirmation letter, like.
You know that labor position on the port advisory board I told you about? I put you up for it.
You're on.
I'm on? I ain't been union since they closed the dry dock.
How come I'm on? The board chair and me, we got a relationship.
You mean, you greased it.
The chairman, he thought you'd be right for it, is all.
There's a stipend comes with it.
$200 a month, Lou.
When I get home at night, I just wanna watch a ball game or something.
I'm not up to go to no meetings or anything.
Christ, Lou, you don't gotta go to all the meetings.
Just show up once in a while, let them know you're alive.
That's not for me.
What's for you? That shitwagon parked out front needs a battery.
Or this kitchen here has been rigged the same way for 25 years.
Whatever I got comes straight.
That's real noble, big brother.
Not noble.
Right.
The shipbuilders' local goes belly-up, and that makes you some kind of martyr? The only difference between me and you - is you picked the wrong union.
That ain't the only difference.
If you were in my position- - I'm not.
To tell you the truth, I'm glad I don't have to make those kind of choices.
Come on, kid.
Sit down.
You really used to race pigeons with my PePop? We all did back then.
I gave one to a seaman on a Dutch tanker one time.
He set her loose in the middle of the ocean.
Damned if she didn't find her way back to Hull Street.
Which, by the way, is more than I can say about your grandfather when he was in the bag.
How come they don't fly away? His wings are clipped.
How much for this one, Mr.
Diz? Why don't you start out with pigeons, Zig? You can train pigeons.
Them things got lice.
They bring the plague, for Christ's sake.
Thanks, Mr.
Diz.
I tried.
Rawls hates his guts.
With reasons.
But the thing of it is, Jimmy's dying inside.
He's a train wreck unless he catches a real case.
But good police.
Always.
The thing of it is, Lieutenant Jimmy McNulty, when he ain't policing he's a picture postcard of a drunken, self-destructive fuck-up.
And when he is policing he's pretty much the same motherfucker.
But on a good case, he's running in front of the pack.
That's as close as the man comes to being right.
Go back to Rawls.
So I get paid? Yeah, you get paid, but you don't get paid.
We get paid.
Why don't they give you the money and leave me out of it? 'Cause we need someone to be Confidential Informant Number 238 registered with the department.
We get you registered, we get paid.
So you're gonna send my picture- - And your social security number.
And they give me money which you keep, and I don't get nothing.
Cuz, did you do anything to deserve the money? Did you? Yeah, we cracked a fucking case wide open.
We brought back very significant information about a major drug trafficker.
That's what we did.
But that's your fucking job, right? You get paid a salary for that.
Bernard, you're upsetting my partner, man.
What are you doing? You don't tell because your ma and my ma are sisters.
That's why you don't tell.
We're not even gonna use your real name.
You'll be registered as Fuzzy Dunlop, a street name.
Wonderful, now I'm in business with the whole fucking family.
It's payday, Zig.
Once again.
All that? We're rolling out there.
I can't hand this shit off fast enough.
Nice sled you got.
Zero percent interest.
Money's cheap.
"Money's cheap"? What the fuck does that mean? It means I got a good deal, you peckerhead.
You should think of getting some new wheels yourself.
Yeah, I'm gonna do that.
You gonna get a car, you're gonna need some jack.
Worry about yourself.
I heard you took on Maui.
Boy needed to get schooled.
What are you, some kind of badass now? - Yeah, it's me.
Niko, things okay? - Things are going great.
Ifyou need more, talk to Sergei.
I gotta see you soon.
I'll call you back in a few, all right? Is that the man? - You don't have to concern yourself- - I wanna meet him.
Let me handle the business.
I mean, you're getting paid, right? Fuck you! I'll play the game for myself.
Take the money, Zig.
You don't think I can do it? Pick up the fucking money, Ziggy.
I don't want it.
You pick it up.
You.
Fuck you.
I was wondering about the La-Z-Boy chairs I ordered.
They come in yet? - How many you ordered? - That'd be three.
Your order's in.
Yes? - It's Nick.
How's it going? I'm ready to talk about more, okay? Youjust say where and when.
I'll call you back.
Not as careful as Barksdale's people were.
This ain't West Baltimore.
They are on their phones because they don't expect us to be on them.
Let me shorten this conversation for you: It's never gonna happen.
McNulty goes after it.
I could use someone like him.
And I could use three more inches of meat.
It ain't gonna happen.
You ever see how a dog gets when he smells a bone buried in the yard? Yeah, and I seen one take a shit on my carpet, too.
And don't give me that he's-got-that-fire- in-the-belly garbage, either.
The answer is no.
What I need from you, I get.
No bullshit, no arguments.
What? When I agreed to take these murders for you, I made my terms clear, remember? I need McNulty on this detail.
Jesus, Lieutenant.
When I said "anything," I meant I'd let you have a kiss feel my tits or something, you know? But not this.
You want me to clear those bodies? See that you do.
Who they? They might be some CBS boys drifting from down south or might be some of Tavon's crew from over on Edmondson.
This far over? I know one thing, though.
What? - They're serving our customers.
Marine unit, Diggins.
I'm looking for McNulty.
McNulty, for you.
It's Daniels Get back to your office.
Thanks, Lieutenant.
This new generation with the names $150? Jesus.
He turned us onto the Sobotka kid, Lieutenant.
This is the other half of the case, right here.
Three apartments on the sixth floor, all leased out to Pyramid, Inc the same people who own the drug warehouse.
Is this where the girls are staying? Or something more? No, the building's too nice for room and board.
A building this nice is for the johns.
Makes them feel safer.
How do they bring them in? The lobby? - Garage, probably.
Either they have a garage card or they're being shuttled in by someone who does.
You get that piece and you're in.
If the people running the girls are connected to the ones running the drugs you can knock off the brothel and then listen in on your wiretaps.
Tickle the wire like that.
Exactly.
Pleasure boats, topless women.
I'm telling you, now the weather's turned, I gotta roll, Diggsy.
Thanks.
We ain't be been paid since yesterday.
And the day before that.
What the fuck? Come on, dawg, are we back up or what? We up, but we ain't in it.
What we got can't stand up to what they moving down the way, so Boy, we about to dry up and blow away, and shit.
Yo, man, I ain't got nothing for you.
How you gonna act like that? Look, I feel you, but I still gotta let you go so At least we get some of that separation pay though, right? Man, you better go on before I lose my composure out this bitch.
These motherfuckers.
Separation pay.
Separate your ass.
Assumption number one is the people running the girls and the people running the drugs are the same crew.
Assumption number two is that the apartments in that condo are working as a cathouse with those Russian girls.
Which means you have to get someone in there undercover to make a case.
I'm thinking we need a more subtle touch here.
I'd march into hell for you, Lieutenant.
You know that.
He doesn't look like he'd have to pay.
Sorry, no.
Domestic issues at home.
Same for me.
Nadine would have them in a jar by the side of the bed if she even heard tell of it.
What? Takes a whore to catch a whore.
What the fuck did I do? Give me a couple beers, Dolores.
Look at this.
I say, look at this.
Dolores, is that you? Dolores, I'd like you to meet my attorney.
This is Steven L.
Miles.
I may not be able to see through all the bullshit in here but he can.
So, if you will I'd like a stiff one for myself and one for my counselor.
Tell me he's a fake.
That'd be lying, hon.
Is they real diamonds around its neck? You sick, boy.
You just sick.
Like I'm the only guy in South Baltimore that ever tried to win the affections of a farm animal? Enough talk.
Now chop-chop.
I'd like one for the house and don't forget to water my fine, feathered friend here.
If it's for the duck, the next round is on me.
Easy, there.
We're gonna need a saucer, hon.
Put some beer in it.
He needs a chaser.
Put it on my tab, Dolores.
Pace yourself.
You're drinking with the longshoremen tonight.
That look right to you? Same truck as carried the girls, same mope driving.
What about the passenger? Looks the part to me.
Container ship on the Talco line, name of Caspia, docks tomorrow a.
m.
Our man Horseface on it? I better call the Lieutenant, let him know we gotta set up on this.
This time, though, we got the wire up.
Eyes and ears both.
There goes the shuttle.
What's he waiting on? Getting himself all steeled up to tell some tales.
Lying to the wife's easy.
It's looking your kid in the eye that's the hard part.
Police! Let's see your license.
"Robert Johnson.
" You believe that? Bob, I'm very disappointed in you.
Wanna go home, Bob? Okay, suppose a lonely fellow wants to meet a nice young lady in this town.
How does he go about it? He'd dial that phone number.
Dial the number.
What else? Punch in those four numbers there.
And? - Ask for Eve.
What? - Ask for Eve.
Go on, go home.
Godspeed, Bob.
Johnson.
My ticket to the dance.
Here we go.
We got one.
We got a disappeared can just hit the chassis.
Affirmative.
I'll eyeball it to the gate.
Raise our boys.
Right.
What's Kima rolling as? - Gas and electric.
Yes? - Everything's good.
You coming in now? - Yes.
White DAC truck coming at you pulling a red can.
Serial Number: X-W-B, as in "boy" C-1-5-7-7-2-6-8.
Driver: white male with brown hair.
Copy? - Copy.
I'm out of this as soon as he clears the gate.
The van has too much profile on it right now.
Copy that, too.
We're up.
Broken seal? - Hey, Frank.
What's missing? Nothing so as we can tell.
Can's full of diapers.
Diapers? - Disposables, yeah.
I'm thinking not even your crew would steal Pampers off the dock, right? I'm not so sure.
Customs seal probably just broke on the offload, is all.
When's Bea Russell coming back from the Fairfield piers? Who, Beadie? She's not down Fairfield.
Don't you worry, Frank.
Your girl will be back soon enough.
Yeah? - She's detailed.
Something to do with city police.
All right, we're up.
I'm out.
You have the eyeball.
First I got this thing on my phone bill.
Now I hear Bea Russell's doing some shit with real police.
You're paranoid, Frank.
Why would she lie? - Shit if I know.
The Greek has two today, right? - Boris comes back in an hour.
The second can's in a lower bay ready to offload when I get to it.
Check that can through straight up.
You got it? Enter it on the computer, like any other.
The next can after it, make that one disappear.
You want me to lose a clean can? - And give it to the Russian, yeah.
You gonna tell them? If I'm going nuts, I'll calm down tomorrow.
We'll slip the hot can off the pier.
If I'm right about this, they'll thank me.
And, Horse, make sure nobody's living in that can when you stack it.
I know.
We got something here.
Another disappeared can just hit the chassis.
They're running them out in tandem.
That means "one after the other," Jimmy.
I know what it means.
Carver, what's the status of your truck? Left the can at the warehouse and rolled out.
You want us on the truck or the can? - The can.
Copy.
I got no eyes at the port.
Kima? - She pulled up.
I got it.
But the truck already left.
You won't make it.
I'll call the MPA, delay the truck.
Do it.
You're still here? Good call.
License and registration, please.
You were doing 24 mph in a 20 mph zone.
You stop for 24 mph? - License and registration.
Christ, I wish we had a tap on the port office phone.
I just wanted to give you a heads up.
That last little item we sent out, it's wrong.
I knew it was wrong when I let it go.
Not on the phone, Frank.
Okay, but this time he needs to be there.
In fact, he wants to be there to hear this shit.
Go ahead, open it.
Bobbie Dolls.
What the fuck is this bullshit? I am waiting for Russian vodka and you bring me trash from Taiwan.
Give me your phone.
Fucking Polacks.
Are they thieves or are they stupid? He's dialing the same number.
It came, but it's nothing.
It's bullshit.
I was expecting this.
Just get rid of it.
Get rid of it where? Drop it in the fucking street.
This is sweet.
The boss man.
And we're on him.
-7 a.
m.
? - Man, what the fuck do you think? We gotta be there, in place, when they come on.
Shit is early.
Y'all down for this? 'Cause I can find me some motherfuckers to swing bats for me if I have to.
You didn't say nothing about no bats.
All right.
That's the fuck I'm talking about.
Bring your boys, too.
7:00.
Hey, Poot.
Yo, Poot.
Come on, man.
God damn, you're a pussy-crazed motherfucker.
A nigger can't look at a female? Yeah, but you be getting dizzy behind that shit.
At least I be getting some.
Well, I be getting some, too.
But I don't make it my everything.
Lieutenant, you still up? I'm here.
I'm still on this second can, but it doesn't make sense.
He went to ground at an appliance store off Eastern.
Now he's dumping it.
You don't wanna sit on the can? - Negative.
The can is clean.
I don't know, Uncle Frank.
Putting two and two together, and coming up with six, maybe.
Maybe.
You called Spiros still, right? Spiros will know what to do.
Come past early tomorrow.
I wanna get down the diner first thing.
All right.
I can't keep up with him.
What's with the duck? Ziggy.
Is Daniels around? - No.
What's the deal with can number two? No contraband.
Heard them complaining about it on the wire.
Somebody fucked up.
The fact is, they even called the boss man about it.
That's a good day.
You guys going for a taste? No, I'm gonna chase the paperwork.
I gotta spring the sitter.
But for a ride home, I'll go for a quick beer.
But more than one, I get sleepy.
Yeah, me, too.
What, you short a car? - Need new brake pads.
Two.
Boys.
How about you? Boy and a girl.
And your husband, he None of my business, I know, but did he die or something? You mean 'cause no one would leave a beauty like me unless he kicked? I was just asking.
He left me.
Left us.
Picked up, moved south.
Said it was either my job or him.
That I was neglecting my duties around the house, all that.
Said that he didn't get married in order to cook his own dinner.
Anyway, he's cooking his own dinner now.
What about with you and your wife? What happened? She died.
Not now, Gus.
I'm good.
Whatever you say, Jimmy.
So, you about ready to go? - Sure.
Be right back.
I just gotta make a call.
Please enter your code now.
Hi, may I help you? - Yeah, let me talk to Eve.
This is Eve.
I'm looking to connect.
Would you like a date tonight? No, not tonight.
I'm back in town in a couple of nights.
Have you been entertained by us before? - No, first time for me.
We can arrange whatever you like, whenever you like.
What kind of a girl are you looking for? We have a variety for you to choose from when you arrive.
When are you thinking of coming? Just give me a minute.
Stop! Move away from the cookiejar.
Long day.
Yeah, me, too.
Thanks for the beer.
Goodbye.
Hey, y'all, they coming.
What these motherfuckers think they looking at? Nigger, you've lost your motherfucking mind.
You're standing on my real estate.
Mine now.
Took it while you was resting.
Y'all too late.
Look, I'm gonna let you walk off right now, or we could do it the other way.
Who you got to do it the other way? Them? - You gonna see me in your sleep.
Yeah, I know.
That's right.
Keep walking, bitch.
They gonna come back.
Yeah.
The way we just punked them, they got to.
Where is he? - You can talk to me, Frank.
This is bigger than you.
I'll tell him what you say.
Bullshit.
Come on, Nick.
That's the Greek? That old guy? I seen him in here before.
Have a seat.
A long time since we talk, Frank.
Coffee, something? - We're good.
What's on your mind? Every goddamn thing.
For one, I think my cell phone's being tapped.
All of a sudden, the phone company don't care if I pay my bills anymore.
Meantime, I hear that our regular port cop, the one that found your girls got pulled off to work some special thing with the city police.
So you switched the can.
I ran a test.
I gave you that clean one, put yours in the stacks.
Straight away, the MPA cops stop that Russian's truck right after he picked it up.
I think someone's got a line into our computer.
Very smart.
As soon as you called, I shut down the warehouse.
That's fine.
But now we're going to have to open the warehouse again.
Lose a few more clean cans, deliver them there.
If someone's watching, show them we have nothing to hide.
Our cut stays the same though, right? You kidding? What's your name? - Nick.
Sobotka.
That's a fair question, Niko.
But it has to be the same for everyone: no work, no pay.
Doesn't matter what's in the cans.
We still gotta check them through.
That's work, isn't it? - We take gas, so do you.
You don't understand- - I understand completely.
No one is in this for love.
It ain't just the money.
I got things happening right now.
Things with my union.
Right now! Not a fucking month from now, when the legislative session is history.
Now! Okay.
We pay you still.
I'm thinking of all the business we do in the future and I want you should be happy.
Thanks.
It's a new world, Frank.
You should go out and spend some of the money on something you can touch: a new car, a new coat.
It's why we get up in the morning, right?
WMD.
Got that WMD here.
I'm looking for what you had the other day.
This shit right here? - The other day you was calling it bin Laden.
But now it's WMD.
It will mass destruct your ass.
So this the hi-test? Same shit, new name.
You be all right.
Okay, get dressed.
I pressed you some clothes and laid them out upstairs.
And don't forget that book bag neither.
You got your chrome, young one? I'll take mine.
Y'all mind the crossfire, you hear? Let's go.
They coming up the alley! They coming back! Aim for the chest, brother, you hear me? Slide up.
You get down on that floor and stay there, you hear? - You hear me, boy? - Okay, Mama.
Come on! Fuck! Shit! - Why you running? - What the fuck? Oh, shit! Hit that nigger cold.
Bitches! Why you hiding? Drama done with, boy.
You gotta get your bags and get yourself to school.
Get in, damn it! T.
T.
, you hear me? Come on now.
The drama's done.
Get your bags and get yourself to school.
I told you, you gotta get ready No! They're changing up? Looking for my La-Z-Boys.
Five of them you got for me, right? - That shipment is tomorrow.
Got it.
That's what the Newkirk warehouse was giving us a few days back.
Straight, to-the-point drug talk.
No muss, no fuss.
Now listen.
Pyramid, Inc.
May I help you? - You got them Davinas or what? - I'm told we no longer carry that line, sir.
Between me, Kima, Herc and Carver we been sitting on that warehouse every minute since we followed that truck off the docks.
No players coming in or going out.
No drug-related traffic at all.
To top it off, Sobotka hasn't used his cell phone since.
We tipped our hand somewhere.
That second can, maybe.
The port police making a traffic stop on their cargo must've spooked them.
If that's what did it, we fucked ourselves over nothing.
They dumped that can as a misdelivery.
What? - They probably changed that up, too.
If they think we're onto them they switch the can themselves, just to be safe.
And it goes off the docks with some bullshit inside - just to see if we pull them up.
Which we did.
Which I did.
No, they're not on us completely.
If they were, they'd be shutting that warehouse down and rolling out.
Instead, they're just sitting inside that place, turning away calls waiting us out.
I, for one, am a patient motherfucker.
Don't waste film.
I been here so fucking long that you're starting to look good to me.
Anything? The drugs go in, they gotta come out, right? I mean, what the fuck? Little late.
When a 9-year-old kid hit the pavement a district commander would be there within minutes.
I guess we're living in a brave new world.
I was in Washington with Burrell when I heard.
D.
C.
? What for? Burrell took some district commanders down to DOJ with him pimping ourselves for a little grant money.
So what do we got? Nine-year-old in his bedroom catches a seeing-eye stray through the window.
Dead? - Pronounced at University.
Witnesses? - No one offering a name but the general theme is two crews arguing over the real estate.
We got casings from at least three different calibers on the ground.
We're gonna canvass hard, but your people and Tactical should hit the area drug corners and collect bodies.
Fucking pointless.
We jack up enough shitbirds, this case can fall.
I ain't talking about that.
I know the drill.
I'm talking about this whole mess.
Been chasing this shit from one corner to the next like it's a plan.
Hit the corners, Howard.
Take scalps.
You'll feel better when you do.
You told us about WorldCom and the name change-up, right? - You said that- - I said change the name of our product.
I didn't say nothing about taking people off a corner.
We done changed the name of that weak shit so many times that don't nobody come down to the Towers no more.
And them Carrollton boys had it going on.
Who shot the young one? I don't know.
I don't think it was us.
Them other niggers was going wild, though, I mean- You know, the cops are gonna have to bang some heads on this one.
They got to.
That means we gotta shut everything down until this shit pass.
That means the Towers, the low-rises.
Everything gotta take a long fucking time-out! I know, String.
I'm sorry, man.
Let me tell you something, man.
This here game, it's more than the rep you carry the corner you hold.
You gotta be fierce, I know that.
But more than that, you gotta show some flex.
Give and take on both sides.
You hear me? - Yeah.
All right, anything that fired a bullet out on that corner has gotta disappear, you understand me? I'm not talking about the storm drains.
Call that nigger Shamrock and drive all that chrome over to the harbor.
All right.
Coming up.
I got people waiting on a package from me but Sergei says that until we're sure about the police We're not going to be doing that business for a few days.
Your uncle, he is right to be careful.
But, Niko if you are going to be doing this, you should not be talking to us about it.
Why not? We are more, what you call, wholesalers.
I'm kind of small-time, huh? You are not so big, but you're among friends.
Call that number.
Talk to him.
Mike? This White Mike? - You know him? - From Curtis Bay.
I went to Southern High School with the guy.
You are with us now, so he will be fair.
No problem.
Now, for the rest of our business We will disappear these containers.
All of them clean.
Take them to Newkirk Street.
If there is a problem, they will stop the trucks or we will see the police.
If not, no more worries.
All right.
We are off the warehouse phone now? All day yesterday, I was giving the new number to our people.
This is bullshit.
If they were onto the truck, then they would've searched it, no? Five-O! Where you guys going? Come on, you know the deal.
Get the fuck up against the wall! Hurry up! Come on, keep moving.
Get him.
Down.
This is bullshit, man.
You know I ain't did nothing, man.
Everybody gets the special downtown at central booking: one baloney sandwich and one white milk.
Just shut the fuck up.
Man, I'm clean, you hear me? - What are you doing in the Pit then? - Saying no to drugs.
Don't just say no to drugs, motherfucker.
Say, "No, thank you.
" Put your fucking head down, step up and get in.
Sit down right here, stupid.
Watch your head going in.
Slide over, asshole.
Shame a kid had to get killed before we got around to doing this.
What exactly is it that we're doing? Young boy killed over bullshit.
Now you got the police crawling all the way up your ass.
It's a good day to be an Eastside nigger, I gotta say.
Thing is, it ain't gonna happen like that if I take you up on your offer.
I'll be out there selling that real.
My boys ain't gonna be scuffling.
They ain't gonna be scuffling or standing on nobody's else's corner, starting no shit.
You're Westside.
You must've heard of Charlie Sollers, right? No.
Goes all the way back to Franklin and Fremont.
I mean, all the way back to the '60s and shit.
Sollers? - Sold heroin like it was water.
I mean, the motherfucker made himself some money.
I don't know who the fuck you talking about.
I know you don't.
And the police don't.
And the stick-up boys wouldn't have a fucking clue either.
'Cause Charlie Sollers just sold dope.
No profile, no street rep.
Just buy for $1, sell for $2.
Sometimes, when your back up against the wall, you go to the gun.
I know.
I been there.
But you ain't gotta live by it.
Avon's a soldier.
That's who you want with you when the shit fly.
But as far as business go - You still got that connect? - Right off the boat, String.
All right.
I'm gonna buy from you at the price you paying and I'll let you walk that shit straight in the Towers.
You can have 734, 770 and 221.
I keep the other three.
How you gonna tell it to Avon? It makes sense, don't it? He gonna hear something when it makes sense.
Right? No shit.
I thought you was in with Nicky.
Fuck Nick.
He said you was his other half.
I don't want his fucking money.
I mean, that's drug money.
And fucking drugs are bad, right? I mean, you gotta consider what that shit does to the community.
You spent all last year with White Mike.
You remember that? A man can grow.
Besides, I got a caper in mind that is gonna put that horseshit to shame.
I'm telling you.
You want in? - What do I gotta do? - What a longshoreman does best, Johnny.
Zig, your duck won't touch the Pikesville rye? He drinks mid-shelf.
He don't like that rail shit.
Fuck if I wouldn't give my right leg for a shot and a beer.
New Charles in the house.
Moving pretty good.
Waiting on a prosthetic.
You got a decent lawyer? Nat Coxson hooked me up through the union.
What's with the duck? - You know you gotta let go of your name.
Say what? Yeah, New Charles don't work no more for a one-legged fuck.
Yeah, maybe "Stump.
" You know what? "Peg.
" "New Peggy.
" - How about "Tilt"? - Tilt? Tilt.
Just like a pinball machine.
Tilt.
I like that.
Yeah, I called a couple of nights ago.
Told you I might be in town tonight, remember? - So, this is your first time? - Yep, first time for me.
What do you do, Jimmy? Are you the police? - Do you work with the police? - No.
Christ, no.
No, I'm a traveling salesman.
I travel and, you know - Where do you live? - I'm not gonna tell you that.
I live out of town.
I'm sorry.
I don't think we can help you tonight.
Thank you.
You sucked.
I mean, really.
Fuck if I thought I was gonna be interrogated.
I mean, Christ, I'm just a guy looking to get laid, right? Hey, fucknuts.
What the fuck is wrong with you? Christ, Ziggy.
Jesus, Zig.
What the fuck? What's up with my cousin? Don't even talk to me about that asshole.
Drank himself to death.
Oh, shit.
What kind of fool would give a duck whiskey anyhow? That boy ain't right.
And his fucking bird couldn't hold liquor for shit.
La-Z-Boys? And Davinas.
Male and female.
Dope and coke.
What the hell is a Davina? - It's like a love seat, kind of.
Any line on weight? - All whole numbers.
No halves, quarters, eight-balls? - Ounces? What kind of numbers they putting on the furniture? Nothing much above five.
Proposition Joe has Ashland all the way up to North.
Ten corners, easy.
Five ounces wouldn't last him past lunch.
It's kilos.
We're on the main stem.
What was coming and going last night? - Not much.
No trucks in, some cars in and out but none of the drug players we saw rolling up there before.
Whatever was in that last truckload probably went out in car trunks.
They're doing their distribution somewhere else for now.
Which is why job one is to get back to a good phone.
The same PC that got you on that warehouse phone will get you anywhere else you want to go.
All we need is the new number.
Verizon running any new lines in there lately? We talked to the phone security people.
They say no.
Probably going to a cell phone.
Best bet is to get the new number off the Russian's cell phone.
Okay, then.
Freamon and Prez, stay on one shift in the wiretap room.
Bunk and Russell, man the other.
Herc and Carver, you guys are on Newkirk Street waiting to see if the warehouse traffic picks back up.
McNulty and Greggs have a line into the prostitution ring.
But so far, the people handling the girls have been a little cautious about fresh johns.
So we're gonna need a new angle there.
Questions? What was your play with those girls? Out-of-town salesman.
How far out of town? - What do you mean? The farther out of town, the more they believe.
Less like a cop you sound.
You do any accents? English, British, Scottish, something like that? Crikey! I was looking to get a little hanky-panky and this one bloke gave me this number to call when I got across the pond.
Work on it, son.
$200,000? That isn't a quarter of what they owe.
They say they will pay another $200,000 once their shipment clears the docks.
And then? - That is all.
These Colombians are without honor, Spiros.
They are cheats.
The chemicals we sent are good, no? - No complaint.
They say they want more, even.
And they understand that we can guarantee their product gonna clear Customs? Right.
And still, they try to chisel.
Why? What are they thinking? That it is all profit for us.
That we will settle for half of what we agreed because $400,000 is still a lot of money.
The Greek will be angry.
This is business, Eton.
The Greek? He will be smart.
Jesus.
You accidentally shoot one and the whole city gets its undies in a bunch.
To err is human, that's what I like to say.
The mayor went to the scene for the cameras last night.
Said the crime will not stand.
Tell the mayor we're still working without an eyeball witness.
How about the street talk? I got some mentions of a 17-year-old with the streetname Bodie.
Narcotics has him as Preston Broadus.
And why is young Preston not being hurled with great abandon around one of our interrogation rooms? We got cars on his grandma's as we speak.
What the fuck you think you're dealing with here? Amateurs? Fuck Nick.
This is my thing.
You want in, you gotta deal with me.
All right, I got S-Class and SL-Class Benzes.
Roadsters, sedans, cabriolets.
I got them brand new, with the keys in the ignition.
Nothing stripped.
Off the docks? - No shit, off the docks.
What the fuck do I look like, a fucking car dealer? Twenty on the dollar.
But if we're gonna do this, I'm gonna need you to order a minimum of three.
Or else it ain't worth it for me.
Now, base price on an S430 starts at $73,000.
You round it, I get $15,000 for each car that you want.
A stolen car is a stolen car.
Without title, who is going to pay even $10,000 for it? Sure, in Baltimore, maybe.
But where you're from I'll bet you got family that don't give two fucks whether or not an American car got a title on it.
Man, it would be a sad state of affairs if an international entrepreneur such as yourself didn't know what to do with a couple of extra Mercedes.
Big night for Jimmy McNulty.
Or should I say James Cromwell of Knightsbridge Stepney and Mersey.
Excuse me? Cromwell was the English fuck who stole my ancestors' land and the other ones are all from rock 'n' roll songs.
Anyways, 10:00 tomorrow night the shuttle comes for me on the parking lot off Russell Street.
Good work.
We'll get Greggs to wire you up and set the surveillance.
Shame we're not up on a good phone right now.
Be nice to tickle the wire when we raid the brothel.
A little luck, maybe we get back up before then.
One other thing.
I'm bothered that a Russian immigrant this deep in dirt doesn't have anything in a law enforcement computer.
You still got that friend over in Woodlawn? I'd like to know what the FBI has in its database.
After that meeting on the Barksdale case I made a point of pissing him off, remember? So what? You do that to everybody.
This is George Glekas.
He's the cat who owns the appliance store where that second can landed.
Run his ass, too.
Why not just cut another guy in and run them out the bobtail lane? These babies start disappearing and everybody on the terminal is gonna suspect an inside job.
We're gonna need bolt cutters for the fence and then we're gonna need enough wood beams to make a track across the grass onto the road.
Why bother? We can run them cars over that little patch of grass, no problem.
That ain't the plan.
I just saw a can disappear.
Talco line? - Pakusa working it? - It's him.
Do we try to follow? - We know where it's going, right? We got a can that might be coming to you off the port.
Can number: Paul-Mike-Quebec-Victor check digit two.
What do you want us to do with it? - See if it arrives.
And if it does? See what happens then.
You wanna know something, Carv? I'm starting to think that as criminal investigators we're not really respected.
That ain't necessary, Jimmy.
I knew we were fucking the dog on that Barksdale thing.
Who do I tell? We got this new ASAC, thinks it's all about loyalty and ass-kiss.
And believe me, this ain't like your agency.
You piss them off, you ride the boat.
Here you come into work one morning, you find yourself assigned to some fucking dustbowl Indian res in Arkansas.
Still, I was out of line, Fitz.
Fuck it.
What you got there, brother? White boys.
A different look for you.
Funny thing is, they're all showing clean.
What's the chance of that? Anyways, NCIC and NADDIS are a dead end.
Customs had a little intel on this guy, Glekas.
You said Customs had intel on him? Should show here.
Let me try something else with it.
This'll give us any contact your boy might have had with us, agency-wide.
Got something out of San Diego.
On Glekas? - We'll see.
I make a long distance call to Hyattsville I need three forms and a lieutenant's approval.
Yes, Agent Ernest Koutris, please.
Believe me, we ain't short on paperwork here either.
Agent Koutris? Not much to it.
We pulled his chain in a stolen goods case I worked in '95, '96.
He was just crumbs, so no charges.
But I did an interview.
The guy struck me as just a mope playing it slick.
Yeah, if you want, I can send you what I got.
All right.
If you need it, let me know.
We need to talk.
Anyone following? Run up and down the street.
Take tag numbers from cars.
All week I've done it.
Nothing.
Again.
The truck is here.
Lester, it's here.
They offload anything? Not yet.
Okay, wait on it.
See, the thing about it, Preston, is that you're unbelievably stupid.
You are.
I don't say it to upset you.
Just to state a fact.
He doesn't think so.
Nobody ever thinks they're stupid.
It's part of the stupidity.
You don't need to tell us what happened on that corner.
We know what happened.
We got you, we got your guns, we got the whole fucking story.
Where that lawyer at, man? See, you just fucked up.
Way you looked at the bag, you know what's in there, don't you? That's you, right there, fucking up.
I don't know what you talking about.
No, you fucked up.
We even got your prints on one of the guns.
We even got that.
Which one? That's you right there.
Lawyer.
They were asking about me? San Diego.
San Diego was a long time ago.
Our friend in Washington does not know why.
Only that the people asked.
You told me the police looking into the women were local.
They were.
No FBl.
We've been running only clean containers? Yes.
And no one watches, no one follows.
No one stops anything.
And we changed the warehouse phone? A day or two more, and we are back to business.
We watch, we are careful.
But we are back to business.
You will have to do a favor for our friend, no? Fair is fair.
The Colombians, I think.
They take our chemicals and pay less than promised.
Down there, I understand everyone is a terrorist now.
Judges are killed.
Bombs go off in the street.
It's very bad.
The Colombians who cheated us, they're not with the guerrillas.
They're trash.
The world is a smaller place now.
And the FBI cares very much about such things.
Fair is fair.
Sergei's making a call.
If there is no problem, then bring in the La-Z-Boys.
I will meet you there.
Recognize that voice? That's the man from the warehouse phone, right? - That's the same guy? - Same guy, new number.
Who you calling? - Pearlman, at home.
Another affidavit, and we're back on the main stem.
Shit is raw, String.
I mean, you can stomp on this motherfucker.
All right.
So, when them police stop busting heads up in them Towers you all let Prop Joe's people take hold of three of them.
All right.
Okay, add the DNR stuff to the boilerplate, and you're there.
Start connecting the dots and you have to start asking yourself what these guys aren't into.
Drugs, women, stolen goods.
All of them.
FBI didn't have much.
A little something out of San Diego on Glekas - in a stolen goods case that was closed out.
San Diego? These guys move around.
What's with the suit? - Date night.
The undercover at the brothel.
Run like hell, ma'am.
We wanna be up on that phone, so we hear what we hear after tonight's raid.
Who's the affiant? Can you get the SL-series in Pacific blue? That would be best.
Whatever you need, chief.
I don't give a damn about the color of this one.
Whatever you have.
Ain't a problem.
They all just gotta have sunroofs.
It's a long story.
Next Tuesday would be good for us.
A ship comes Wednesday early, so Listen you think I can get an advance on this? I got some expenses right now, and I'm a little tapped.
I'm just asking.
Payment on delivery.
Don't worry about it, chief.
I would never even dream of cheating a smart businessman like yourself.
It ain't enough that I gotta be the one thinking this whole shit through.
That I gotta be the one looking out for this shit and that shit.
Checking up on this, making sure this shit is done.
No, that's not enough.
That's why they be paying them fucking CEOs so much damn money.
Because when the shit fall bad, it all fall bad on them.
Everybody else can be ducking and hiding, doing what they fucking wanna do.
But when push come to shove I'm the one who's got to take that responsibility and y'all are leaving me very little to work with right now.
Hold up, String- - No, that's a very simple thing, my nigger.
You drive the guns to the water.
You look around, you ain't see anybody, you throw the guns.
In the water.
Splash.
Now, get the fuck out of here, man.
Except you, young one.
You ain't say shit back there? No, they fucked up when they told me my prints was on one of them guns, right? And I wiped them shits down myself.
And the one they said was mine wasn't even.
If they would've had anything past my name, they would've kept me, right? - All right.
All right, String.
Lock that door.
You got a bolt cutter? 'Cause I'm gonna need a good one.
Got two in the window there.
You hung this on a duck? Of course.
$1,200.
Fair enough.
Nick.
It's been a while, Mikey.
Yeah, it has.
But your name has been ringing out in my mind lately.
Yeah? My man called.
Said you was gonna take a re-up from me.
Yeah, that's what they told me, too.
Nicky Sobotka, living the life.
Who fucking knew? - So how much you looking for? - Two or three G-packs a week.
I was getting that shit from the Greek's people.
Four each.
Four? I wholesale for five, man.
I don't know.
They told me you were gonna be straight with it.
Sergei.
What up, dawg? I got a friend of yours here says we're giving Gs at four.
Yeah? All right, fuck it.
Yeah, it's fine.
Another thing.
I wanna know it wasn't your people dropped that body over on Potee Street the other night, you know? I'm asking 'cause it was someone with some Greek-ass name and fuck if he wasn't dumped in front of a house I was using.
Did he have hands? Did he have a face? Yes? Then it wasn't us.
Idiot.
You got friends in high places, Nicky.
Four a pack for you.
All right, cool.
Thank God for the Russian's cell phone.
They might be laying off the warehouse line, but at least he ain't changing that up.
Did he have hands? Did he have a face? Yes? Then it wasn't us.
What the fuck is that? - It's a man's purse.
European men like yourself sometimes carry one.
Them people ain't right over there.
The mike has to go somewhere.
Besides, you might have hands all over you before we get what we need.
Indeed I might, luv.
It'll be your call when we come through the doors.
You want us in, you say What was it? "Spot on.
" It means "exactly.
" And remember, they have to bring up the money and the sex first then an overt attempt to engage.
Spot on.
Detective Freamon with Baltimore Homicide.
Listen, what do you guys have in VICAP for male victims headless or faceless, and missing both hands? Middle Atlantic region probably.
$4.
5 million in the capital budget that's set to pass House and Senate both.
Money'll be allocated for the fiscal period next year.
Congratulations, Frank.
What kind of stevedore drinks champagne? So, Nat, about the election.
I just need one more year to bring the dredging home.
That's what I need.
Ott's turn, Frank.
This is Agent Koutris of the FBI down in Washington.
He's with the counterterrorism people down there.
Terrorism? - He needs our help tonight.
I'm at the overpass on Wicomico.
Copy that.
Okay, we're on here.
Good evening.
Paint pigments.
They ship them in for the SCL plant down at Fairfield.
It's in there somewhere.
Run it.
Same consistencies on all the barrels.
Nothing else in there, really.
Nothing but the pigments.
What's going on? - I don't know nothing, Horse.
Swear to God.
Tonight, I'm just a dumb white boy from Locust Point.
You know, I'm saying this out of respect, Brie.
I love the man like my brother, but when it comes to something like this he gonna listen to you more than he listen to me.
You think so? All I put in his ear about my son didn't do a damn thing, now, did it? All them times I told him that he needed to do more for D'Angelo and what happened? He feel for that.
He feel for you.
I know he didn't see it coming.
None of us seen it coming.
I did.
I swear, I saw it.
He ain't listen to me then.
Why the hell you think he gonna listen now? 'Cause we got a weak product and we holding on to prime real estate with no muscle.
I don't got Wee-Bey, Stinkum, Bird.
Now look, I know that your heart is heavy.
I know.
But them wolves is at that door.
As long as them Towers are still standing, I am, too.
And I'll be damned if I'm gonna let everything we fought for go to shit.
So I'll talk to him.
Mr.
Cromwell.
Decisions, decisions.
Would it be wrong to take two? Attaboy.
We should get upstairs.
Nothing but paint pigments.
Trust me, old friend.
It's there.
Son of a bitch! Okay, then.
Right.
Maybe, we could talk about this first? Any time you guys want.
The money changed hands, right? Sounded that way.
And they talked about sex? - Definitely.
Any time you guys want.
Hang on.
Oh, God.
Is it soup yet? Spot something.
Spot on it.
Let's go.
Whoa.
Why? We're supposed to take the door and get in quick.
Calm the fuck down.
It ain't like they gonna flush a half dozen whores down the toilet.
Who is it? - Baltimore police.
What do you want? - To lock your ass up.
Hands.
Let me see them.
Two more in the back.
Come on, ladies.
You're late.
He okay? He'll live.
estimated at 1, 125 kilograms ofprocessed crack cocaine is estimated to be in excess of $45 million.
Federal officials have confirmed to Channel 6 News that their investigation is ongoing and that while no arrests have yet been made the seizure itself has severely disrupted the operations of a group believed to have ties to Colombian narco-terrorist- Now, that, gentlemen, is a case.
God forbid you two should put something like that on my friend, Frank Sobotka I would die happy.
Our case is progressing.
Great, what can you charge? - We're not at that point.
We've got wires into a smuggling operation that we've linked to drugs and women.
Likely, they're the people who were bringing in the girls who turned up dead in that can two months ago.
Now, we're on one location that we believe is a transshipment point for narcotics.
And last night, if you check the 24s you'll see that we hit a brothel we also think ties in.
A month or two more on the taps and DNRs and we will be able to identify the top-end players.
You hit a brothel? - Waterfront condo, high-end.
Jesus.
If you find anything that looks like a list of steady customers, flush it.
I mean, half the names in the Maryland Manual are probably on it.
Any problems on the raid? A complication or two.
Nothing we can't write around.
Immigration is holding the girls.
And the madam, who has legal residency, we cut loose after she posted bail.
You try to interview them? See if any will roll? Not while the taps are up.
Better to let them think it was a random raid and see what's said on the wire today.
Cut to the chase.
You any closer on my murders? If these are the people who were importing those girls then, yeah, we're closer.
The more we learn, the more chance we have to clear those cases.
What about Frank Sobotka? I'm not hearing his name in here anywhere.
The union may be involved in the smuggling but we're not getting a sense that it goes past that.
This is about Frank Sobotka.
The case is bigger now.
Look, missy, this is my detail.
I started it.
Now, I'm asking, do you have charges on Frank Sobotka? Charging Sobotka at this point would lose us the wire and a chance at the real targets.
He is the real target.
Patience, Stan.
I'm sure if they bring the case- - You owe me on this, Erv.
You asked for a detail, I gave you a detail.
You asked for Daniels, I gave you Daniels.
Okay.
Now the votes are in and you're moving your damn golf trophies upstairs to the commissioner's office now you're freezing me out, huh? Fucking rat fuckers, all of you.
This is my case.
Mine! And now you're gonna tell me who the target is? Not fucking likely.
He's saying no.
He's saying we fought for every one of them Towers and to give them up now would mark us as weak.
He's saying if we do this, Prop Joe would have it over us and we might never get out from under.
We don't have the product or the muscle.
I told him.
I did.
He say he still trying to find us a better connect.
And for muscle he's saying he sending us the best he can find.
Brother Mouzone.
He sending in Brother? From New York.
Coming down to work on retainer, for as long as we need.
Brother Mouzone? - Yep.
"At which point the officer was unable to resist "the ministrations of the aforementioned suspect "and found himself brought to the point of a sexual act.
" You're famous behind this, you know that? As a pervert, this report is gonna make you a BPD legend.
I can't perjure myself.
I gotta explain it somehow.
Motherfucker, you have violated a half dozen departmental regs right there.
Not to mention that no state's attorney is gonna even bring this thing into court.
We're not going to court.
The girls are being deported.
We did the raid just to tickle the wire, remember? There were two of them.
I was outnumbered.
You fucking with me, right? Brother Mouzone, from NYC? I went to Avon, told him I didn't have enough muscle to hold down them Towers.
Played it like that.
Yeah, and he reached out.
Joe, I'm still holding on to this deal.
Know what I'm saying? This is just some shit we gotta deal with.
Deal with how? My nigger, I would take the motherfucker out if I could but Avon can't know it came from his own people, right? You don't think I'm gonna send any of my people up against Brother? Shit.
That nigger got more bodies on him than a Chinese cemetery.
True.
Look, I'm just saying, this your problem, not mine.
You want my product, you need to deal with it.
All right, so listen, we got some time here.
Avon gotta send up word and wait for word to come back set up a price, talk to Brother Mouzone, I mean, set up the whole shit.
And that's like a week or maybe two.
And by that time, your people's gonna be in the Towers and if the money's right, then that is what it is.
Ain't no nigger from New York gonna change the facts from the ground.
All right? you there? That last truck is on the move.
It sits there for two days and they don't offload a thing.
-10-4.
They're testing us.
They been moving clean cans.
The trash hasn't drawn any flies.
No? - Wejust took out the last of it.
No problems.
Okay, then we go.
What about llona? - She is home.
They kept the children.
There are always more children.
Why don't we tap that cell phone, even if we don't know who we're tapping? That call might just be our PC.
And this here is the little king of everything.
So how many we got in the sector? Double shift, plus the Flex Squad, DEU and a dozen guys Tactical sent us.
We're on every corner.
Pretty damn quiet today.
Today.
Let's go.
Officer.

Fucking-A.
Yeah, shit is good.
Here.
Next time we re-up, though tell Moe man we need about 700, I ain't even seen shit like this since I don't know when.
Same with the jumbos? - Yeah, better get more of those, too.
What the fuck is up now? String, what's up, man? What up? Can't call it.
How's our package? - How's it look? Shit is good.
See these Eastside motherfuckers over here? I want you to extend to these motherfuckers all the hospitality that West Baltimore is famous for.
You heard? - You want us to fuck them up? No, dawg.
We're giving them We keep the rest.
If anybody start any shit they'll have to answer to me, all right? Directly.
You heard me, right? All right.
What are these off-brand niggers gonna do with a project tower? Fall back, young 'un.
We're gonna show y'all motherfuckers how to grind out here, all right? Hey, String.
I heard you, man, I did.
But this shit right here, it don't make no sense.
You like the new product we selling? It make sense now? - Where are we at with our Boss Man? - We should be up on his phone soon.
The PC is there, no question.
We get up on his cell phone, he's done.
We'll ID him, no problem.
I don't know.
They came down on that warehouse phone when we spooked them.
Sobotka's cell phone, too.
We might be going up on a dead line.
This is the other way to go.
Compared to the wiretap, it's the longer way around.
But still, if he's changing up on his cell phone Over the last week or so we've not only confirmed the identities of some of the key players we've also got GPS trackers on all their cars.
First of all Eton Ben-Eleazer.
He's the drug Lieutenant in the warehouse.
E-ton.
Whatever.
Our madam, Miss llona Petrovna.
George Glekas, who runs the appliance store over in Highlandtown and the probable fence for the organization.
We followed some of them in real time.
With this little toy here, there's something else we can do.
That's seven days of where our targets have been, sped up.
And lookit.
Two locations only where three or four cars stopped at the same time for more than five minutes.
One "X" is a dive of a diner down on South Clinton.
The other is on the western shore of Fort Howard down past Edgemere.
We get up on these locations, maybe we get a photo of the Boss Man.
Or a tag number.
It's totally cool.
Where did you even get this stuff? - DEA for the trackers.
McNulty pulled the software from his pals at the FBI field office.
We can pull Herc and Carver off the warehouse and give them the diner.
McNulty, Bunk, you guys take Fort Howard.
What the fuck, Frank? You might as well start posting them things, right? I mean, shit, if you're gonna run, you might as well come out and say so.
It ain't personal, Ott.
I want to finish what I started with the dredging issue.
And you don't think I'm good enough to handle it.
It ain't about that, kiddo.
Ott, listen to me! What the fuck do you want me to do? Tell him where the money comes from? I.
B.
S.
? Not to brag, but union racketeering is one thing the Bureau does well.
That is exactly what I wanted to hear.
This case needs closure, boys.
And in my heart of hearts I know you're the kind of bastards to put Sobotka where he needs to be.
One other thing you Federals can help me with.
And if you don't mind, a little discretion is called for.
That, right there, is the district surveillance van which was fully equipped when it disappeared.
A surveillance van? Sobotka stole it.
Now it's I-don't-know-where.
The last picture was from Seattle but I got prints from two other places, see? You reported the van stolen, right? It was my feeling that the theft of a vehicle from a departmental lot would reflect poorly on the department.
The thing is, I know you boys have got enough reach to maybe get the van back without no big dustup.
As a favor for me having brought you the whole case.
Motherfucking Eastside need to get their asses back across town where they belong.
Yo, man, we run them off, we run off the good dope so I'm just saying they all the time hustling around cutting prices and doing shit.
It ain't right.
Walk, nigger.
Yo, what's up, soldier? - Looking maybe to do something here.
With him? This motherfucker? I saw him over on Ashland last week selling burns.
Fuck y'all, nigger.
Look, what did he say? $25, two dimes and a coke kicker.
I'll give you two dimes for $15, plus the ice on top for free.
What? That'll work.
Take it in the lobby.
I'll be right behind you.
That's what's up, see? The game now is that we gotta sell more of this good shit than they do.
What? Get the fuck out of here! You mean to tell me there's a Westside nigger who knows how to sell shit without sticking a pistol in a fiend's face? Yeah, dawg.
And you better get used to it 'cause y'all ain't selling shit until we bone-ass dry.
Believe that.
All right, nigger.
Whatever, man.
All right, cottage-cheese, chest-ass motherfucker.
Where do you want it? - There's good.
Easy.
We could help you set it up.
You have a surveillance to cover? - I got that feeling again.
Like they don't think we're potty trained.
Can I help you? - FBl.
Lt.
Daniels? He's in his office.
Without that billboard in my face, I wouldn't have known.
How could you have known? - There was the wingtips.
And the beady eyes.
Definite giveaway.
Tight asses.
Definitely.
Lt.
Daniels? Agents Settles and Mason.
Maj.
Valchek said you'd be expecting us.
You listening to this fool? Saying that the Eastside is wilder than Westside 'cause of some shit about Eastside folks drinking port wine while the Westside do sherry? Port make a man do crazy shit, I'm telling you.
Butchie, talk to this fool.
For me, leastways the difference between East and West goes back to one man: - Frank Matthews.
Pee Wee Matthews? Yeah, the brother went up New York and got in bed with them Italians.
The only one from this town got a piece of that French Connection.
What the hell Pee Wee got to do with anything? 'Cause Frank was Westside.
How do you like that? The dope flowed West.
When you got a steady supply, you run shit like a business.
Somebody gets hurt, there's a reason.
Not like this foolishness we got today.
Excuse me.
What say, Omar? Ain't no thing.
You know I got something for you, right? Wouldn't come around unless I did.
What up, Butch? How you holding up, baby? Except for fretting on you, I'm good.
It's for my people.
A little something for a rainy day.
You built up a right nice-size nest these past couple of years.
Might be time you maybe think about backing off some? Back off to what? Later, Butch.
Stay, boy.
Damn, Zig, I ain't got it cut yet.
And turn that shit down, for Christ's sake.
Nicely done.
Like I always say, it pays to go with a union card every time.
Turn the fucking radio down, Zig.
Will you get in the goddamn car already? For Christ's sake, we ain't got all night.
Jesus! You could drive a tank through there, it wouldn't take a scratch.
Where the fuck you going with this? Greece.
Athens, Greece.
The hole is so they don't think it's an inside job.
So they don't look at the union.
Welcome aboard, chief.
Is that you? I thought you were gonna go shopping.
Me? - Yeah.
We round-the-clock with surveillance.
When do we get to the part where you do all kind of shit for me? When do we get to that part? So you past the point of lifting a grocery bag or two? You try being me like this.
Something wrong? The baby's kicking.
Wanna feel? - Almost $4,000.
I know it is.
The Greek guy, the one with the warehouse, pays me in cash.
Keeps it off the books, so he don't have to pay taxes and benefits.
And you saved all that? - He gave me a bump, too.
I'm pulling down $700 a week.
You don't believe me? Christ.
I was saving that up to give to you for the new apartment.
You know what I'm saying, dawg? But I don't understand how these hoes be acting sometimes and shit.
If I tell a bitch, I'm like, "Bitch, either you suck dick or you don't.
" - Gentlemen.
What's up, my brother? Are you slinging bean pies up in here? You know what I mean? You with the nation, homey? 'Cause either you're a Muslim or your momma need to stop laying your clothes out in the morning.
I'm here to represent the interests of a Mr.
Barksdale.
Are you familiar with Mr.
Barksdale? - That name ring out, but so do mine.
And you are? Cheese, man.
Mr.
Cheese.
I see.
And who do you work for, Mr.
Cheese? - Who do I work for? Am I correct in assuming that you are not employed by Mr.
Barksdale? Hell, yeah.
If that is the case, then I have to insist that you leave.
This nigger serious? - Let me be emphatic.
You need to take your black ass across Charles Street to where it belong.
What? - Hold on now.
He don't know what this is.
It ain't what he think, you know what I'm saying? First of all, we got permission to grind in these here towers.
Second of all, I don't give a fuck Get off me, get off! Pellets in plastic.
Rat shot.
What you need to be concerned about is what's seated in the chamber now: a copper-jacketed, hollow point load of my own creation.
So you need to think for just a moment and ask yourself: What do I have to do before this man raise up his gun again? Let's go.
Good day to you, sir.
I'm in agreement with the agents' assessment.
As far as I can see this case is an ideal candidate for RICO prosecution.
My agency agrees RICO is the way to go, so we'll be in your courthouse, not mine.
But I want one thing on record.
As of 9l11, the Bureau has one priority in this case: it's waterfront corruption.
It's a new world and the ports are vulnerable.
This case is bigger than the union.
We're agreeing to take on the whole case, Lieutenant.
But the union is why we're in the room with you.
If you're okay with that, we can work the case together.
We'll copy all the Bureau's 302s to the Lieutenant and Miss Pearlman.
Your paperwork should CC Squad 6 and my office, as well.
I'll start pumping your casework into our system.
See what leads that might generate.
Oughtn't you be laid up resting? A gunshot ain't nothing to trifle with.
Shoulder do hurt.
But this here work just fine.
Tell Stack to polish it up good and put $7.
50 on it.
Shame to let a good toaster get away over a frayed cord.
First off, ain't nobody running up in them projects.
Them Westside boys are hurting over this more than even you.
Trust me, soon as our good shit run out, they fucked.
Second, a whole passel of hard-ass hitters took a go at Brother Mouzone, and ain't lived to say shit about it.
We go at the boy, no telling what might get stirred up.
If Stringer takes a shot, he crosses Avon on it.
Put a bounty on him.
Let some bushwacking fiend back-shoot his ass.
I pin money on him, and first thing he come at me? Shit.
Might as well just shoot myself now and get it over.
There is one boy who might could just pull this off.
Only, he won't take contract money.
Aim for center mass.
Make sure the man goes down.
No problem.
I got the three on the left.
Fuck you, assholes.
How you doing? - How you doing, buddy? The Samsung S221.
You got that? I don't see it.
Doing the old inventory, are we? I hope there ain't been no thieving going on.
Not like the problem we got down at the docks.
You get the cars off? - Sailed two hours ago on the Caspia.
Listed as scrap aluminum.
I got the bill of lading right here.
Not here.
In my office.
Forgive me, but how am I to know you did not ship them empty? I just don't know.
Let me see.
Maybe if I had a 4.
0 Megapix, three time optical, fully digitalized camera I could've taken some quality photos of them Benzes in those cans.
But oops.
I forgot my camera got busted.
Or you know what I could do? I could get old Boris to skulk around them docks keep the old commie red eye on them containers.
Make sure the dock boys are playing me straight.
They are what I order? - Yes.
I got you the S series in the colors that you wanted.
I even got one parked outside.
You wanna see? Outside? Now? I'm just taking her out for a spin, chief.
I'll put her back tonight.
Wait one.
Them cars list out at better than $60,000 each.
Today, the quote is 10%.
Still, it's good money for a few hours' work.
No! No fucking way! We had a deal, motherfucker.
A deal.
You listen to me.
It was my fucking ass out there on the line.
Mine.
This piddling shit is the best that you come up with? You don't play me like that.
You don't.
Fuck you, you thieving, Greek cunt.
Malaka! You don't know that one, chief.
But you know "malaka, " yes? Now you know malaka with dress.
Please.
Malaka.
Can you hear me? Ifyou can talk, please stay on the line.
Get in the boat first, then put the preserver on.
It's easier that way.
Yeah? Y'all trying to drown my ass for sure.
Come on.
Don't push me, man.
Rod.
Got it.
Here.
Hold on to that.
I know this one.
Stringer Bell will come at me with this.
Says he's got something with Omar he need to make straight.
Didn't say what that might be? Wouldn't tell me.
And to be truthful, I didn't want to know.
No.
It don't feel right.
You know them Barksdale people ain't to be trusted.
No denying all you say is true.
But Stringer talking parley.
So your boy needs to think long and hard on this.
'Cause if Omar is living his day-to-day in the street there ain't no telling what their next step might be if there ain't no sit-down.
"Parley"? - That's all he says he's looking for.
I'll talk to him.
But if it feels funny to him the way it does to me I got a better chance of putting a leash to the wind, you know? If you think it might help, I can go protection.
They're the one got hurt the last time.
Then there was a reason to meet.
This time feel different.
I hear you.
Maybe Stringer's still trying to settle that beef behind the fact that he got to live in this city, too Omar being Omar.
If it ain't putting you out none I'd feel a powerful lot better if my nephew took over protection.
Hayward.
Typed and ready for your John Hancock.
Thanks.
Sure.
You just have to initial each page and then sign at the end.
I'm just checking.
This is the official record, right, chief? It's what's gonna play in court.
Can I change something? Yeah.
Just put your initials next to your changes.
It's no problem.
Yeah, it's only one.
You know, you typed "said" here, see? - "Said"? He wasn't saying, "Please don't shoot me.
" It was more begging.
You know? Double G, he's begging me.
But that's not gonna mess you up, though, right? No, it's more descriptive like that.
It's good.
Thanks.
Quiet.
No one in or out of there.
It's kind of nice out here.
Moonlight on the water.
Waves lapping gently against the boat.
I'm working my regular eight.
I can handle it, you know? But a detail like this That's what I'm asking.
If something comes up on the job, how would you handle it? I mean, at home with the kids.
Until now, not much came up.
But now, say something comes up.
I mean, say we do a raid or something.
What would you do? I guess I'd try to get the sitter to stay.
Maybe call my folks, like I did tonight.
You know how it is with kids.
You gotta be there.
But you wouldn't miss it? I mean, with everybody rolling out and you having to head home? If it keeps going like this, I don't know what I'm gonna do.
Thanks.
It's no problem.
You wanna make a phone call to someone? If you get over to Madison, it might be some time before you can.
Ain't a chance I get a bail, right? How about family? All right, to bring you up to speed, we've got agents in Le Havre shagging leads from the manifest of the Talco ship due here in a few days.
To see if we can't pinpoint the origin for the illegal containers.
That's a lot of cans.
A hundred and ten, actually.
How many agents you need to track back to where all those cans came from? As many as it takes.
We may be assholes, but on the upside, there's an awful lot of us.
Let me get this into the computer for the boys overseas.
Anything from that shithole of a diner? Herc and Carver had nothing overnight.
The feds took over this morning and it's still quiet.
I'm going back on the water.
One meet and we're on this guy.
The Talco line's in Wednesday.
I'll send Nick for a number.
The Greeks again? - Who else? They sure do stir up the shit, them Greeks do.
Uncle Frank.
Nicky boy, just in time.
Uncle Frank.
What? What happened? - What the fuck is it this time? - He shot They're saying he shot two of the Greeks.
Last night, they're saying.
Shot? - He shot? - Fucking Christ! He's locked up.
He's fucking charged with murder.
The Greeks? - Double G.
And one of the kids that works down the store on the avenue with him.
They're saying he walked in there.
He went in.
Why was he there? - Where the fuck were you? - Uncle Frank, I didn't know.
What didn't you know? - What is Ziggy doing near the Greeks? - I don't know.
You don't know? You're supposed to.
You're his fucking cousin! You're his father.
Not that drug enforcement's my cup of tea but I'm told it was the largest crack seizure on record.
I just wish I had good news for you.
You told me this was a local effort.
It's sprawled.
Now the Bureau's involved.
We're looking hard at the port unions.
My hands are tied.
They're on you with wiretaps.
Several phones, several addresses.
Stefanos.
Have the boy go to Eton.
Tell him to come right away to the other place.
You're not calling? - No phones.
No more phones.
Adieu, my friend.
They forgot your fries.
No, they forgot your fries.
My fries are right in here.
Those are my fries.
Bitch, everything I say, you hear backwards.
The fries are mine, boy.
Go ahead.
Eat the fries, you fat fuck.
See if I fucking care.
What? You think I'm fat? There's our boy.
Lester, Eton's on the move.
We got it.
No need for an eyeball follow, right? - No need.
A fine fucking kettle of fish.
I heard it, but I had to come see it for myself.
And sure enough - Major? You know, I put my faith in you fucking feds.
You let me down.
Major, we can talk in my office.
Lieutenant.
It's Lieutenant, right? I gave you a simple assignment: that fellow, the one in the corner.
And to make it happen, I gave you all this.
Good digs, people everything you needed.
And what did you give me? Right up the fucking ass, Lieutenant.
Major, you're going to get- - Roland, get your shit.
You want to do it your way, fine.
But you ain't gonna use my people to fuck me.
Get your gear.
I'm pulling you.
I got There's work - You said- - Get your narrow ass back to the district before I slap you with insubordination.
Move, shitbird! Jesus! Detective, my office.
Base to 11-34.
Target number two is coming at your 20.
Copy that.
We're on it good.
We're on the Boss.
My God.
He shoots both? - He kills George, right there in the store.
Leaves the boy to bleed.
For what? An argument over a few cars? - That little Polack? - He's crazy, that one.
The police have him now.
The police still there? Go to the store.
Whatever the police did not take, papers, pictures, everything you clean it up.
The warehouse, too.
Everything gets clean now.
Everything.
And the phones are dead.
Did you see that? They just threw the phones.
Standing by.
We got our man.
Target number one is a white male, 40s, short wearing a tan shirt and a gray tam.
Copy your description.
targets are on the move.
We can't make the vehicle from here, but you sure can.
Copy.
What was he doing with that thing in his hand? Same thing you always do.
Probably sending a text message.
My kids are crazy over that.
That's our guy, right? What's his face Sobotka from the drug corner? I need to get with Vondas.
Who's that? Spiros.
Where is he? I don't know no Spiros.
No shit.
He just up and clocked him? - Daniels had everybody write what they saw.
Even us suits.
That was smart.
Daniels is sharp.
Where's Prez now? - Daniels took him home.
I don't think he'll come back to this detail.
You never know.
He might have one of those psychological bullshit things in his jacket gives him immunity or something.
Valchek gave him immunity, and he just put Valchek on his ass.
Nothing since the Fort Howard meet.
They're definitely dumping phones.
When you use a cell phone and press "send," where does the call go to? - Why are you asking? - The Boss Man at Fort Howard.
He tosses the cell phone we're up on, right? Then he pulls out another thingamajig, and he types a message.
Text messaging.
It starts at one of those towers they got up all over the place, right? And ends up in a computer at a wireless provider.
If you knew when the call was made, could you trace the call back to that tower? 'Cause if you could, mightn't you get a phone number? You get that, then you got the billing details, right? Fool, do you have any idea how many people use cell phones? There must be thousands, hundreds of thousands at any time.
What you need is another variable.
Another bit of data that's gonna help you isolate your call from all the others.
What if you knew where the call was made? I mean, exactly where it was made.
We were out in the middle of nowhere.
Does that help narrow it down? The Fort Howard sea wall.
It ain't exactly Charles and Baltimore Streets.
You've got another problem.
Which wireless company? There must be Verizon, MCl, AT&T, Sprint Shit, tin cans and a string.
You got dozens of them.
Lamar? - Where's my Harper's? - Say what? Harper's.
The new issue.
You didn't say that one.
You said The New Republic and Atlantic - and a new something else.
I did not forget to tell you Harper's.
Every week I tell you the same shit, and every week you forget half of what I say.
Tomorrow, first thing, you go to the newsstand and you get Harper's.
And The Nation, too, which you also managed to forget.
You know what the most dangerous thing in America is, right? A nigger with a library card.
All damn day, he just sit there reading.
And damned if them Eastside bitches don't stay away.
That's real muscle, right there.
True that.
What are we gonna do when we start running out of good product? That's what we need to ask ourselves.
Yo, Bodie, if Stringer want the Eastside up in here then why Barksdale got a man running them off? This is getting us nowhere.
We got nothing under Pyramid Inc or any of the targets at any other cellular company.
It's on McNulty then.
I'm on the spot right now.
Go.
North, 39 degrees.
11.
727.
Longitude: West, 76 degrees.
26.
628.
Now, this was a neat trick.
No one ever did it before.
Identified a cell phone using time and GPS.
We got everything on the phone that was text messaging from those coordinates at 04:45 p.
m.
today.
Just a subpoena? With this, you can get account information and a phone number.
With a search warrant you can get two months of text messages.
You got two months of text messages in this file? I do, if you've got a warrant.
Tell you what, friend.
We're gonna go back and start typing that warrant tomorrow morning.
But right now, we wouldn't mind taking a peek at what my man's been up to in the last 24 hours.
Exigent circumstances.
Thanks, brother.
Fuck me.
Nothing's easy.
What's up? - They've dumped their phones.
We're trying to get onto the Boss Man's text messaging.
They sent that Greek mess over as email.
After he inputs, the computer will translate it.
Got it.
Shit.
Hey, Prissy.
Thought you'd be here.
Fucking Ziggy.
When didn't he do dumb shit? Remember when he forged that Age of Majority card? We all pooled our money.
You drove us over Brooklyn Park to the cut-rate.
My mom's puke-yellow Chevy.
We told him specifically: two bottles of Pikesville Rye and Southern Comfort for me.
What did fucknuts get? Fucking Boone's Farm.
He said that's what the college kids drank.
But we did it up.
Right here.
He stood up there, a bottle in each hand screaming loud enough to wake the nuns.
What the fuck did he say? "College kids ain't shit!" Goddamn, Zig.
Yeah? - Beadie, it's Kima.
We're gonna take the Boss out.
Raids? Tonight? - You got somewhere to drop the kids off? No, no problem.
I can take them over to my parents'.
All right, we'll see you soon.
Kima, thanks for the call.
Bye.
The judge wants to know how much longer.
We're close.
Dump this row.
Dump the computer.
Dump this.

Wake up, Baltimore.
It's 6:00 a.
m Police! Ready? Freeze, FBl! - All clear.
Check upstairs.
Turn around.
Put your hands up.
Behind your neck.
Keep them there.
No, nothing here.
All clear.
All clear.
You won't find a goddamn thing! I can tell you that right now.
Ain't got shit on me.
Fuck! You ain't got nothing.
I'm telling you.
Nothing! Move, shitbird.
FBl, show me your hands! Get down, fuck! Get down! Nice.
Bingo.
From behind your clothes washer.
That's heroin, 300 gelcaps.
And on today's Chip Franklin Show at noon Chip will be live at Arundel Mills Mall asking local retailers: "What do you get for the guy who has everything?" Now here's Steve Stewart with sports.
The Orioles continue to - We could take him now.
Not enough profile.
Fucking feds.
Be advised, target 27 is on the move.
I don't get it.
Why leave Vondopoulos out on the street? The text message that told him to clean up, it came from someone higher up.
Someone we don't know.
We leave him on the street after these raids he'll probably make contact with whoever's above him.
Either another text message or a meet.
What's with George Glekas? I'm afraid he's gonna duck this warrant.
Chester Karol Sobotka? - It's Frank Sobotka's kid.
Frank's kid kills one of our targets? Are you shitting me? Why? What for? We hit the store this morning.
Every shred of paper's gone.
Just a bloodstain on the floor.
So we go over to his house a half hour later with the warrant and it's full up with red-eyed Greek relations looking at us like we're braindeads.
Homicide, Shea.
This is Daniels, out at Southeast.
Yes, sir.
Who caught the Highlandtown murder the night before last? Jay Landsman, sir.
I'll be right over.
Go get the interviews started.
Lieutenant? - Hey, Lt.
What the fuck is that about? How did we do this morning? Eton and Sergei are in.
So is the madam.
Glekas, I'm not sure.
The feds are waiting on Sobotka.
What are they waiting for? You don't wanna know.
Jesus, Larry The thing is, I think we gotta reach out to a criminal lawyer real quick.
If the union guys can't handle this mess he's gonna have a bail hearing tomorrow.
Do you have any details? - I don't know nothing except he's locked up for it.
I can't see him till 10:00.
That's the only time? - Visiting hours, yeah.
Look, everything's gonna be fine.
FBl! All of you move, now! - What the fuck is this? - FBl, move! - Against the wall.
He's here.
Got another problem here, Larry.
Big man on the docks.
You don't look so big now, do you? Ma.
Pop.
It's gone.
And the money, too.
They say you need to come in.
They said the warrant is at Southeastern police district.
They're out there now.
Showtime, Franky.
Frank.
Sir, any comment? Is it just you, or is it the whole union? What's your comment on the charges being brought against you? Sir, do you have anything at all to say? Any comment at all? How will you answer the charges against you? Let me ask you, who exactly am I working all these dead girls for? The Homicide unit, right? The same Homicide unit that can't put two and two together and pick up a phone leaving me to read it a day-and-a-half later in The Baltimore Sun.
What did you take from the scene? - Photos, latents, spent casings.
Fuck.
They cleaned everything else? Even for a supremely fucked-up police department this takes the prize.
How'd the kid play it? He signed a full statement.
He said that there was an argument about a stolen car or two.
Think he'll open up and talk more? He's been processed and assigned a PD.
If you want to take a run at the kid, you're gonna have to get around his lawyer.
I'm sorry, Lieutenant.
It's my bad.
State your name, asshole.
What's your name? What's your name? State your name.
Come on, you know this part.
Give us a name.
There is your name.
State your name.
No name? - For now, we'll just call you Boris.
Boris.
Why always "Boris"? Racketeering.
Wire fraud.
Conspiracy to import heroin.
Conspiracy to violate federal customs statutes.
White slavery.
Today we're only charging the customs violations, Mr.
Sobotka.
But eventually, a grand jury indictment will expose you to a lot more.
Name names, and come clean.
You help yourself and your union.
Help my union? For 25 years, we've been dying slow down there.
Dry docks rusting, piers standing empty.
My friends and their kids, like we got the cancer.
No lifeline got thrown all that time.
Nothing from nobody.
And now you wanna help us? Help me? - What's your full name? - Michael McArdle.
White Mike.
Yeah, that's right.
Listen to this, Mikey.
I wanna know it wasn't your people dropped that body on Potee Street the other night.
I'm asking 'cause it was someone with a Greek-ass name and fuck if he wasn't dumped in front of a house I was using.
Did he have hands? Did he have a face? Yes? Then it wasn't us.
We hit your suppliers.
They cleaned up and left you holding the dirt.
Suppliers of what? - You discussed a drug buy on this tape.
We also have photographs tying you to your stash house and putting you at The Greek's warehouse over on Newkirk Street for re-ups.
Do yourself a solid here, Mike.
What's the plan? - This is just a detention hearing, Frank.
You're not a flight risk, you have no meaningful priors.
And so far they've only hit you with one count.
The magistrate's gonna ask us some basic questions.
Barring anything unforeseen, you're out in an hour.
I said nothing to them suits.
All the better.
This Eton, he's in charge of what exactly? - The dope.
He's what, Greek? He's a Jew.
You know, from that Jew country they got.
And what about the guy they call Sergei? - Sergei's straight muscle.
Look, I need something to eat.
Okay, what do you want? Two hot dogs and a strawberry soda.
I'd fuck the order up.
It's gotta be strawberry? Hook a brother up.
Big man, that ain't gonna work for Omar.
It's all right.
Been what, a year? Boy, you don't know, I been dreaming of running into you again.
You got a focus.
I give you that.
Man be like that when he got work to do.
You know what I mean? I think you've done enough.
Bird gone.
Wee-Bey copped out to all them murders.
He in jail now forever and a day.
Stinkum? I mean, you closed the book on that nigger your damn self.
Avon, he out of pocket for the time being.
Leaving you.
You looking for closure? - Lookit, man, ain't no closure.
Not unless Brandon walk up out his grave and come up in this room right now.
See, all I know is whoever did him that way, they gets got.
Whoever did him that way, they still out there right now.
So now you gonna play like you had nothing to do with it.
No, I can't lie.
I put the motherfucking paper out on y'all.
But y'all was fucking with my stash.
Anything after that, part of the game.
Maybe.
But see, I went past that with Brandon.
That wasn't me.
That wasn't Avon, either.
Bird and them were there to see it.
But another man did all the extras: all that cigarette shit all that bullshit with the eyes.
See now, this man, he building a rep for himself and he wants you bad.
The brutal shit, that's his calling card.
Little bow-tie wearing motherfucker from out of NYC? Yeah, small dude.
What he go by? Brother Mouzone.
I know you heard of him, right? So if y'all got the mind to go after him I might be able to point you in that direction.
Why? What happened to your boy was business.
But how that shit happened, you got the right to take that to heart.
I figure that'll make us even.
Now, you wanna know where this nigger is? - We need to sit down and talk, Frank.
I gotta see my son.
The man's right.
Let's grab a cup of coffee or something.
Not now, I need to get clean.
Sergei and them they did Mau Mau Willis.
Why'd they chill him? - He was welshing on the Jew.
Okay, Sergei's a soldier.
But he and Eton report to somebody.
Who's above those two, Mike? - I don't know.
You don't know? - Never did wanna know.
God in heaven, Zig, the cops do that to you? Ain't the cops.
Lawyers are saying the bail might be tough.
I'm trying.
You know I'm trying, right? - What happened? - I don't know.
I got tired.
I got tired of being the punchline to every joke.
You had problems, you could've come to me.
You could've said something.
You wouldn't have heard.
You were always too busy dredging up the canal.
Making sure the right bum got elected.
Buying another round for the house.
I always used to think you were working all them hours you spent away.
It was all work, Zig, even when it wasn't.
For you, for your mother.
I bet you didn't even tell her I was in here, did you? Maybe you did and she already took three Nembutals, sleeping the day away.
Leave her out of this.
She's out of it, don't worry.
Pop when I seen what I did to that kid down at the store it made me sick to my stomach.
That ain't you, Zig.
It ain't? Because the same blood don't flow for us, Pop.
I mean, I wish it did, but it don't.
You're more like me than you know.
You're a Sobotka.
Fucked is what I am.
What the fuck can I say? Best progress so far is "White Mike" McArdle.
He's standing on the edge of the cliff.
We're gonna get Pearlman in today to see what she can do to step him off.
Also, we're still hunting the Sobotka nephew.
Herc and Carver are on that.
Still, my guess is the drug players even if they roll, give us Eton and Sergei.
The case gets thin when we get up to this Spiros Vondopoulos.
Boy, them Greeks and those twisted-ass names.
Lay off the Greeks.
They invented civilization.
Yeah? Ass-fucking, too.
What exactly do we know about Vondopoulos? We should stay on him, see who he really is.
How about it? Throw us a few of your well-equipped surveillance teams? In case you haven't noticed, Lieutenant, I'm the only fed still in the room.
The US attorney has what he wants with the union guys which means my field office is pretty much over this case.
Okay, we're on Vondopoulos ourselves.
I'm sorry for him and for you.
We should've paid more attention to our own.
Like I could've stopped Ziggy from what he'd done.
Like anyone could ever control him.
I was thinking of my boy, too.
They're dropping the net on all the guys.
Ain't no secret things get lost in them cans now and again.
He'll be all right.
They tossed my house, Frank.
They don't do that when there's a couple of cases of vodka missing.
They made me sign the search warrant.
That's a receipt-like for what they found.
Heroin, Frank.
From this house.
No, that ain't right.
That can't be right.
I knew Nicky and Zig was boosting stuff.
Cameras, shit like that.
Nothing like this.
You knew? And once Nicky got used to boosting stuff and seeing a little money what did you think he was gonna do? Turn straight all of a sudden and give it up? No, Frank.
Once you gave him a taste on the house, just That was never I mean, he knew.
He knew.
Everything I did, the cans I let through the money we got from that went to keeping what we had.
God damn it, Frank! Don't let that excuse this.
Not this.
Uncle Frank, with the big shoulders.
"If it's broke, give it to my uncle.
"He can fix it.
" Hey, Killer.
I got something for you, come here.
You got the new Harper's yet? Now, you know stores down the way don't have nothing past Vibe and Handguns Today.
Some titty mags, too, if you need.
All right.
I got you.
I'm gonna hook you up, though, all right? Hey, boy.
Told you I had something for you.
There you go.
That's my good boy.
Good day for a ship.
This is the hiring hall, Frank.
Working stevedores only.
Big Roy, let me have your card.
What do you want my card for? Not you.
Little Big Roy, let me hold your card.
I need it.
I'm gonna work the Cape St.
George today.
I'll work it for you.
Work it for me? I work the ship on your card.
You work a barstool down Clement Street.
End of the week, you get paid.
Hey, Phil.
I'm putting up for the Cape St.
George.
I don't see no resemblance.
We're both bald, we're both Polacks.
What the fuck else you need to know? Who's gonna work for me? - A different look for our boy.
Perry Ellis or something.
How would a just-rolled-out-of-bed-looking motherfucker like you know the designer? Okay, I'm guessing.
It's a Joseph Abboud.
He puts dark buttons instead of brass on his blazers.
That's the Abboud signature.
You know what they call a guy who pays that much attention to his clothes, right? A grown-up.
We're up.
-12-14, let's go.
Copy, 11-34.
That's a first.
Sweat from a checker.
You all right? - Ready.
Maybe you ought to set up an easel on the sidewalk - and do a sketch instead.
I'm fine.
Anything I ought to know? - Yeah.
Use the city.
Windows, mirrors, reflections, anything like that.
Stay on my frequency, hear? Vondopoulos should be coming out of the garage on foot - right about now.
Copy that.
Beadie Russell.
She wasn't much when we started, you know.
But now she's got game.
Thank you.
into a fifth floor room.
Note the number then get down to the lobby.
Wait on him there.
Copy.
She's got Vondopoulos in a room.
It could be a while.
Copy.
All this shit's going out to chassis? - That's what they tell me.
We need a forklift.
We're almost done here.
man, middle-aged, blue suit leaving the front door of the hotel.
They'rejust behind me.
Copy? Copy.
Subject and companion, blue suit, leaving the hotel any moment now.
Copy, we got the eyeball.
The man with Vondopoulos has got to be big.
I mean, look at that expensive suit.
Yeah, with them buttons and all.
We leave the Benz here? It's hot.
They didn't come back to the Benz.
You got them down there? Negative.
You about done? - These nine here still got to be stripped.
Harder than it looks.
What ain't? - You hear how Moonshot got his name? - Yeah, and I could give a fuck.
Who was the room registered to? Stephen Rados.
He gave a Northwest D.
C.
address.
Maybe that's the man with the good tailor.
Maybe not.
We should run out the paper trail on this guy, see what we turn up.
As to our only tangible piece of progress from the raids what can we do for our friend White Mike? He rolls on his suppliers, and he can walk with a long probation.
And we can move him, if he needs.
Witness protection? Why have the feds with you if they're not gonna step up every now and then? Wait a second.
You're gonna give a drug dealer a ride like that? What about Frank Sobotka? The feds took a shot at him and got nothing.
Or so they tell me.
The way I read it, they cared more about busting up the union- Than anything else in the case.
If we came at Frank straight? You can't make him any kind of specific offer yourself.
Only I can do that, and only after I get an okay from my front office.
She could plant the seed.
There's no better messenger, Counselor.
Take a shot.
You going to his house? - The Union Hall.
That's his house.
Thanks for waiting, Brucie.
Sorry I'm late.
I shouldn't even be seen with you at this point.
I just wanna settle our business while we still can.
It ain't like I'm gonna get my hands on more cash, obviously.
The grain pier is dead.
Half the votes we had lined up are walking sideways now.
They read the paper, Frank.
So what? So I'm dirty.
The grain pier's still the grain pier, right? They ain't voting for me, Brucie! It ain't about me! I'm not gonna lie.
No one is gonna stand with us now that the FBI is on you.
They're scared.
Of what? They took the money, Frank.
And now if they deliver the votes, they figure the feds will be on them, too.
I'm sorry, Frank.
You find a way of putting this FBI thing to bed maybe we can come back the next session with the grain pier.
You'll have a couple of people down there knowing they owe you a vote or two.
I don't know what else to say.
I don't.
I'm sorry, Frank.
You know what the trouble is, Brucie? We used to make shit in this country.
Build shit.
Now we just put our hand in the next guy's pocket.
Come on, you can't eat only olives.
Order something.
Lamb or something.
I'm not hungry.
All this trouble.
So, our associates, they are strong? - Yes.
I don't worry about our people.
We can try to get them out before the trial.
If not, they will stand for us.
We have shown them too much.
There will be no more trouble.
We must make certain of this.
Maybe there's another way.
There is only one sure way.
Hear me out.
If I could guarantee that Frank Sobotka and his nephew would be silent wouldn't you prefer that? But you cannot guarantee this.
Frank's son, the idiot who shot George in his store he is going to jail for a long time unless There was a young clerk wounded that day in the store.
The prosecutors want to use him as a witness.
I know his family.
Frank Sobotka will have his son back.
If a man can have this, why would he talk to the police? What about Frank's nephew? He is the idiot's cousin.
He wants the same thing as Frank.
Anyway, I don't worry about Niko.
You are fond of him, Spiros.
You should've had a son.
But then I would've had a wife.
If this maggot doesn't post by midnight, I'm gonna take it personal.
The shitbird lives in his parents' basement.
Where's a guy like that gonna run? You wanna go with Auntie Tasha? Come on.
Nice and easy, honey.
Come here.
All right, come on, baby.
What's up, big man? Where the party at? Ain't no party up in here, girl.
We thought Darnell and everybody was gonna get their smoke on.
Don't you know Darnell? What's this good boy's name? Hey, boy.
How you doing today? You been good? This a good boy.
There it is.
Car will be running.
What is it, Lamar? No need to prolong this.
No, we got time.
You kill my man? - No, he's resting.
I'm saying, ain't you wanna know? - Not particularly.
About a year ago, a boy name Brandon got got here in Baltimore.
Stuck and burned before he passed.
The game is the game.
Indeed.
See, that boy was beautiful.
Wasn't no need for y'all to do him the way y'all did.
You feel me? - A year, you say? - About that.
You've got some wrong information.
Man, you lying to live.
I'm at peace with my God.
Do what you will.
So you know? What happened to your boy, it's not my style.
The way you bleeding out your back, looks like that bullet bore clean through.
Emergency.
Do you need police or ambulance? I wanna report a shooting over here at the new motel.
On North Avenue.
Room 221.
Sir? My pal, Beatrice.
What, you gonna run me in again? Isn't that like double jeopardy or some shit? Stop it, just stop it.
Talk to me.
And say what? I'm sitting here trying to figure it out myself.
It didn't happen overnight.
I knew I was wrong.
But in my head, I thought I was wrong for the right reasons, you know? There are different kinds of wrong.
What're you doing here, Bea? I'd like you to come in.
Not in cuffs.
Because you want to.
I'm opening a door here, Frank.
I can't promise you anything.
Just come in.
We'll start from there.
You're better than them you got in bed with.
Our man Vondopoulos didn't come home? - Maybe he got lucky.
Maybe we didn't.
You think he ditched the Benz because he picked up the tail? Nicky from the docks.
If you hadn't called last night, I'd have never found you.
Relax, Niko, come on.
It's like I told you on the phone.
It is going to be all right.
We can make it all right.
I should have never gone down the road with you people.
Come on.
You tried to make something of yourself.
There's no harm in that.
And you still have friends.
I'm busted.
So is my uncle and the whole fucking union.
And Ziggy? - Christ! - We will be a friend to him, too.
Nothing your people can do about that.
Ziggy's done.
Nothing is done, Niko.
Nothing.
Take a look.
That's not your name.
Many names, many passports.
We can do many things.
What can you do for Ziggy? We ask only loyalty.
Why do they need sticks? Can't they kick it with their feet? She asked me straight-up to come in, so I'm here.
First, we need to know what you're looking for.
We don't want any misunderstandings later on.
I'm just looking for, you know, some help with my son.
He can't jail where they got him.
We move him to a county facility.
What about my nephew? - He gets arrested and charged.
But for his cooperation and yours we can live with straight probation.
But what we can and cannot do for you and your family - depends on the level of your cooperation.
You mean, how much I give you? I got dirt on all of them.
I'll put myself in, too.
Whatever you need.
Anything but the union.
I ain't putting in no union men.
I'll give you them dead girls in the can.
I'll give you The Greek, all them sons of bitches just to have it off my chest.
Just look to my son and my nephew.
Mr.
Sobotka, at this point I have to advise you you need to retain the services of an attorney.
We're not gonna do this now? You need to have a lawyer present in the room.
You have that, we can make this happen first thing tomorrow.
Mr.
Sobotka, I gotta ask.
Why did you stop using your cell phone? You guys flagged it.
You think I didn't know? Under the bridge? It's out in the open.
I guess the cops can't bug it or nothing.
These guys, they got a big operation to protect.
They're global-like.
They're really something? - You got no idea.
I think I got a pretty clear picture of what they're about.
We ain't talking about a bunch of thieves rolling drums of olive oil off the docks.
Heroin? How the fuck did that happen, Nick? Look at me! You ain't much more than a kid.
Me, I should've known better.
I put you up with them, for what? I flushed my fucking family, for what? You know what that is, Nicky? Do you? A condominium.
I ain't going down there.
What I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna go in and talk with the police.
That's right.
I'm gonna do to those cocksuckers what they did to me.
You can't do that.
Why not? They wanna meet with us on Ziggy.
They can lean on that witness that kid that he shot, the one that was there in the store.
The kid's gonna say that Double G had the gun.
That it was like self-defense or some shit.
Ziggy could walk, Uncle Frank.
He could.
And for that they want what? - Loyalty.
Motherfuckers! I'll hear them out.
All right, I'll drive.
No, it's just me.
You ain't dealing with those guys no more.
Uncle Frank, me and Spiros- - I don't fucking want you with me, Nick! Go home! Your way it won't work.

WA YE news time, 8:05.
It's gonna be partly cloudy, breezy and warm today with highs around 80.
Right now in Baltimore, sunny skies.
And here's one of my morning favorites.
Yo, Ott.
Santo Rey's late? Squall last night off of Hampton Roads.
KGA, go ahead, 76-72.
Notify Homicide and the OCME.
We got a floater at Patapsco Terminal.
Copy that.
Nothing at Vondopoulos's house? He's not going back.
He's dumped his Benz and our GPS device in the downtown garage.
He's off the cell phones.
And there's no text messaging in Greek either.
The raids, the follow, one or both sent him underground.
This guy, Stephen Rados? What's he? He rented the hotel room for the meet with Vondopoulos.
But checked out right after.
Fitzhugh's running him through every database.
So far, nothing but a driver's license in D.
C.
Lester.
Homicide for you, line 2.
Maybe Sobotka knows him.
When Sobotka comes in today, maybe he gives us a line on every last Greek.
Freamon here.
Thirteen or so coming across the fax from VICAP.
All of them John Does.
And that's just headless and handless in the mid-Atlantic region.
If you wanna go nationwide, you'll be up over four dozen.
Fuck me.
What can I tell you, kiddo? We are policing a culture in moral decline.
So, you want to come get these? Or should I have a uniform run them over to Southeast? - Run them over to Southeast.
Okay.
Have a seat.
I can't.
Gotta get back out there, take care of business.
Just wanted to make sure they were treating you right.
Making the most of it.
I'm catching up on my reading at least.
I just want to let you know that we got your back.
You know, whoever did this, we'll find them.
We got you, you understand? I appreciate the offer, but that won't be necessary.
Inform Mr.
Barksdale that any obligation he feels he might have with regards to this incident it's absolved, along with our agreement.
All I'm saying is- I understand perfectly well what you're saying.
What I am saying to you is: I will take care of them myself.
Them? Who came at you? Thank you for your concern.
Easy, Nick.
Easy.
I'm gonna kill them.
Fucking Greek bastards.
Get out of my fucking way! Get off of me! Fuck all of you! He was there for all of you, and now you're nowhere for him.
What the fuck you gonna do? Get a gun? Go play gangster? Like your fucking cousin? Let's go.
What was she firing, yo? Dirty Bomb, with a red-top chaser.
Damn, yo.
The bomb is the bomb.
Opportunity knocking.
Keep a lookout.
He just boosted the whole fucking truck.
Good looking out, Johnny.
At least I remembered to call.
Stabbed repeatedly.
Torso, abdomen, and they cut his throat to be sure.
Single-edge blade.
He fought, too.
Defense wounds on both hands.
Ligature on both legs.
Weighed him down with something, but it slipped off in the drink.
One, two, three.
Fuck it.
This Sobotka kid knows there's a warrant.
He either turns himself in or not.
Who gives a fuck? Either we get to him now and roll him, or he comes into the district with a lawyer.
He comes in with a lawyer, he's less likely to go for something in the box.
You sound like McNulty now.
We stay with these guys on their cases, we ain't never gonna get no respect.
You know this.
I figure when the detail's over, I go back to straight narcotics.
Try to get over to Dawson's shift, find a new rabbi.
What about you? Don't know.
I mean, you gotta admit, Daniels has been okay for us.
I mean, he's there for his troops.
You gotta be shitting me.
I just came from the crime scene.
He was coming in as a cooperator.
Offering up the drug-and-prostitution ring he'd been smuggling for.
The guy lays down with gangsters, gets up with his throat cut.
Almost feel sorry for the son of a bitch.
You were right about Sobotka.
Case had enough legs on it that I've got Burrell committed to keeping my crew together as a major case squad working out of CID.
If you are gonna charge him I'm gonna charge his narrow ass.
You're gonna do your son-in-law? You don't think I didn't tell her not to marry that brain-dead son of a bitch? I'll tell you the truth, Major.
Everyone who saw the punch wrote on it.
And they've all got Prez throwing the punch, no question.
But they've also got you addressing a subordinate officer as a What was it? A shitbird? Fuck you.
This is the Baltimore Police Department, not the Roland Park Ladies' Tea.
I'm just saying, the other detectives the FBI agents, they gotta write it the way it happened.
I mean, I could probably get my own people to cheat it for you, but the FBl You know how tight-assed they are.
Roland Pryzbylewski rides the Southeastern desk on midnight shift for two months.
During which time he writes a personal letter of apology to everyone seen that punch throwed.
In which he makes it absolutely clear that it was a penny-cheap sucker punch that would've got his ass kicked in by a real police except for the fact that I have my daughter's feelings to consider.
And then he can come up here and say the same to my face and after that, if he wants to piss his career away in your unit I could give a hairy-ass fuck.
Lieutenant.
Rod, that shit goes into a supplemental.
You don't put witnesses on a face sheet.
Officer.
You got something for Freamon? Homicide sent it over.
Officer, my son wants to turn himself in on a warrant.
Everybody talks, nobody listens.
Mike, that asshole calls back, I'm in the shitter.
Now what can I do for you, gents? - You got a warrant on me for drugs.
I'm turning myself in.
A Southeastern warrant? He's surrendering.
He's gonna cooperate in any way he can.
What name am I looking for? - Sobotka.
Nicholas Sobotka.
Morphine? From a city ambo? You should be ashamed to be calling me on this one.
The body came up.
I saw, on the television.
We weighted him down pretty goddamn good but the water just coughed him back up.
Bad luck, that's all.
Sergei would've done better, I admit.
Niko, the nephew.
By now he knows.
Our people wait for him, but so do the police.
I am thinking there's nothing to be done at this point.
What he says, he says.
He knows my name.
But my name is not my name.
And you? To them, you're only "The Greek.
" And, of course, I'm not even Greek.
So we go.
But there's a little business to do first.
There's a shipment on the docks this week.
One hundred and fifty kilograms.
And no one to pick it up.
Not just Sergei, I miss Frank, too.
We can't disappear the can.
But maybe we send someone.
Bring it off the docks, legitimate.
Everywhere we go these days, we seem to be walking into police.
This is telling us something.
You're going to leave 15 million tholaria to rot on the pier? Lambs go to slaughter.
A man, he learns when to walk away.
No, we go.
Call the others in.
Let them know there is no longer any point.
We don't wait? Our friends are still there, no? - Still here.
Then go.
Sobotka was a cooperator? We had preliminary discussions with him yesterday.
He agreed to post today with a lawyer, but instead So what's left of the case? We've pulled in everyone caught up in the wiretaps, save for a couple bodies.
We left the man we think is the number two for the operation on the street, hoping he'd lead us to number one.
We have people on him? He's out of pocket at the moment.
Last seen leaving a downtown hotel, but we expect he'll resurface.
And the union people? With Sobotka dead, the case right now is limited to a subordinate or two.
But the important thing for us is the union.
Either they jettison their current leadership or we have enough to get that local decertified.
Leaving only me and my 14 bodies.
When do we get to that bit of business? Lt.
Daniels? Line 2.
Det.
Freamon insisted I put him through.
In all likelihood, Frank Sobotka was going to speak to that.
Now, we're a step back, sorry to say.
Sobotka came in.
The nephew? Yeah, he flipped.
Come on, Bubs.
You gotta do better if you wanna walk on this.
How about some murders? - How about them? They're not killing people in West Baltimore these days? Been quiet.
Except for that mess with that young boy who got hit with the stray through the window, ain't been nothing.
How about that? - I ain't got nothing on that one.
It's just two crews beefing over a corner.
You know what, Bubs? You going to jail.
How you gonna talk about going to jail? You hearing this, Johnny? Like we ain't got history in this room.
Like we ain't friends or nothing.
When you was up in that hospital, all I did was worry.
"What about Kima? What's up with my girl?" I'm just happy to see you're up in the mix and you talking about jail and shit.
That's too cold, girl, damn.
Remember that Eastsider got shot in the high-rises, right? You remember that shit, right? I mean, you were right there, Bubbles.
That wasn't shit.
Boy got hit with a rat shot, that all.
Who you talking about? - Boy named Cheese.
Him and the other Eastsiders moved into the Terrace took over a couple towers from the Stringer Bell's boys.
Then some crazy-ass bow-tie nigger came in and chased his ass home.
And what happened? Mr.
Bow Tie, he ran them off.
He told them Eastsider fools, "Them towers belong to Avon.
" But then he ain't come back no more.
Now them Eastsiders are back up in there steady slinging.
I mean, it ain't like a war or nothing.
It's like Stringer Bell and them are sharing.
Sharing? You guys are on all of it? You have a public defender sitting next to you, Mr.
Sobotka.
If there's anything about this deal you don't understand- They killed my uncle.
I don't need to talk to no one but you people.
How do you know they did it? I told Spiros calls me after everybody's getting arrested, right? Tells me he wants us to keep our mouths shut but Uncle Frank, he says he ain't gonna.
Says he's gonna go talk to the police.
Spiros says that if we keep quiet they can help my cousin, Zig, you know? And now Spiros is saying that I don't know, the kid, the one that didn't die the one that got shot he's gonna say that the gun, it wasn't Zig's.
That Glekas pulled the gun, and it wasn't really Zig's fault.
So your uncle went to meet them and talk about that? Under the Key Bridge.
I seen his car was still there this morning.
I seen that, I fucking knew.
If they killed your uncle to shut him up, they probably- Wanna kill me, too? Shit! I was gonna go down with him to the bridge.
I was gonna go down there with him.
He wouldn't You were involved in the smuggling? We didn't know about the girls.
Them girls that got found? - We didn't know there were girls in there.
You thought it was drugs? Drugs, stolen shit, whatever.
We got paid by the can to creep shit off the docks.
That's all.
That and selling the drugs that you got from The Greek, too, right? That's your cousin's signed statement.
He put himself in, talked about buying the gun.
The bill of sale from the pawn shop is in there, too.
It wouldn't have mattered if the second victim had backed up on his story.
Your cousin was locked in.
Your uncle was sitting yesterday right where you're sitting now ready to give us everything, if we made the drug charges go away for you.
And maybe got your cousin to a better lock-up than Eager Street.
As you can see, we're willing to honor that deal even if it didn't happen for your uncle.
Spiros was the main guy.
He told me and Frank which cans to disappear and then when it came to me and the drugs, he was the one that hooked that up, too.
The Israeli, he was their drug guy.
I went through him for all my re-ups until they passed me off to White Mike McArdle.
You know Mike? Guess you do.
Double G was in charge of stolen shit.
Anything we could lift from the docks went straight to his store but he's dead, so why am I wasting your time, right? Her, I don't know.
My uncle, you know about him.
I don't know why you got Horse's picture up there.
Horse don't know shit.
I'll testify to that.
What about the Russian? He drove for them.
Anything that had to come off the docks, he was their guy.
But I also got the feeling that if somebody had to get hurt he was probably going to be around for that part of it, too.
Why did you think that? Sergei, he just carried it like that.
And also, after them girls died in the can they told me that whoever fucked that up they had already got to in Philly.
They said that whoever did that to them girls was dead.
And how did they say it? They just said, I don't know that the guy that you all was looking for he was a dead end.
A dead end? - Yeah.
In Philly, they said.
Who's the suit? You sure? We know that someone is above your man Spiros.
Someone he was in communication with.
Yeah, The Greek.
Sure, I know who you mean.
I mean, I don't have a name or nothing.
The man in the suit the man with Vondopoulos in the photograph.
That's not The Greek? That's The Greek right there.
That the guy? He picked out an Eastsider, all right.
Cheese runs with Proposition Joe's mob.
Had a few corners off of Ashland, last I heard.
What's the verdict? - He did good for us.
So I'm out the stat? - I owe you one, Sanny.
Both of them? - Yeah, that one's his valet.
Can I use your bathroom? Fuck, no.
Get out of here.
Bubs, one last question.
How's product in the Towers? It was shit, now it's right.
Found this guy.
Federal court computer down in D.
C.
But not in a bad way.
He's a K Street lawyer down there.
So the suit was only a suit? On the other hand, my friend, this is from overseas.
A can on the Adriatica, which docks the day after tomorrow at Patapsco.
Fake manifest out of Le Havre.
You people got reach.
That's about $300,000 in man-hours we're holding here.
What's the plan for him? You gotta call the US Attorney about witness protection.
We're rounding up his girl and kid.
It's best we keep this as quiet as we can.
We already lost one cooperator.
It's for you.
Daniels.
Lieutenant, Fitzhugh's calling for WITSEC, and we're pulling in the girlfriend and kid.
Okay, thanks.
FBl.
This is Special Agent Terrence Fitzhugh, Baltimore field office.
May I speak with Agent Koutris, please? - Who? Agent Koutris.
He's no longer with the San Diego field office.
Where's he at? You could try headquarters in Washington.
Counterterrorism.
Counterterrorism? For how long? I'd have to check, but I'm sure he's been gone from here more than a year.
Either he comes home in the next five minutes, or I eat my gun.
I'm just saying, this is not the way me and you learned how to do it in West Baltimore.
Not by a fucking long shot! Either your son surrenders within the hour or all the police will come crashing through this door twice a day for as long as it takes you people to get the message.
You hear me? We will take this door once in the morning and once at night, and toss your house until there isn't any furniture with more than three legs left on it.
Officer, my son turned himself in to the police last night.
At Southeastern.
A detective was there at the time.
A detective? - Motherfucker.
Come on.
Don't use the phone.
There'll be an agent posted outside.
If you go anywhere, go with him.
What a dump.
You wanted us to get a place, right? If they got to him in Philly then they probably dumped the body in that area, right? No use in dragging a headless torso around further than you need.
Good God.
I bet you there's a police detective somewhere else looking at a table full of heads right now.
In that stuff that we took off the ship, did we keep any photos? Couple of pictures of one guy that left his gear, yeah.
They're at ECU.
You two should get on the road.
Get up there before the offices close.
Where y'all been at? I'm saying, though, Butchie, something just ain't feel right.
The man didn't even know what I was saying.
So I just eased off.
You think brother played me? - No.
Y'all can't read lying eyes after all these years then I'd be talking to a dead man.
You saying Stringer told you the brother had something to do with your boy Brandon? Yeah.
Near as I know, Brother Mouzone spends most of his time up north.
New York and Philly.
If Avon contracted him to get at you the brother wouldn't have stop coming until you two were bumped.
It's my fault.
I should've said no to Prop Joe from the get-go.
Avon's father was plain evil, and the son ain't no better.
Neither is Stringer, now that we making a list.
I'm going hard after Stringer.
No point in trying to talk you back down, I suppose.
You been my bank for how long and gonna ask me something like that? How you gonna get at him? I don't even know, Butch.
Take some time and think on it.
One thing for sure, though, the man got to be got, you feel me? What you see, Butch? Too much, boy.
Too damn much.
A lot happened overnight.
Not to us.
Look, this isn't personal- - Fucking-A, right.
We're not even people in this unit.
We're your goddamn pack mules.
"Sit on this house, transport this mope, wait for that one.
" That's part of the job.
The job had a little more rip-and-run to it, the way I remember it.
These cases are more than that.
We're putting people in jail with phone taps and typewriters.
So you're saying we ain't up to it.
I saw on the postings that Major Colvin needs a sergeant in the Western.
Flex squad.
And the last time I checked, I had stripes.
Eastside, Westside.
Cats and dogs, sleeping together.
Shit.
I'm late for something.
You say you want everybody that came on the port that day? No, we're looking for anything out of the ordinary.
Probably at night.
Oh, unusual.
You should've said so.
What you asked for before- - That's what we You're right, sir, absolutely right.
Just see if there's anything like that.
Nope, all I got is usual.
All right.
Any way you could give us the name of the security officer that was on this pier that night? What was that date again? February 5.
You had the Atlantic Light on that pier from 6:00 p.
m.
That was Walt.
Walt Stokes.
Is he working tonight? It's Tuesday.
Walt's off on Tuesdays.
What do you want Walt for? See if he can make any of these.
Wouldn't do much good.
Afraid Walt's not as up to speed as the rest of us.
Seeing as you've come all this way, though you might want to have a look-see at the videotapes.
$300 for a stroller? I know, I know.
Cost more than your first car, right? A hooptie, no doubt? We're so gonna need one of these.
Look at this, Kima.
Blue's Clues juice box holder.
If the kid can't hold on to a little old box without no help, we got problems.
Okay, listen.
This baby is gonna come out of my belly and need both of us, forever.
You understand? I mean, it may not be real for you yet.
But, goddamn it, it's real for me.
Nick.
What's gonna happen, Nicky? That can on the fifth wheel there.
By the plan, it's a hot box, but there's no one on a pick-up.
Where's it from? - Le Havre, France.
Fuck it, then.
Dump her.
Lester, the drug talk coming from Proposition Joe's people before the warehouse phone came down.
Those were for steady re-ups, right? We weren't up on that wire long, but, yeah, three weeks in a row.
How much? - Five or six La-Z-Boys at a clip, to start.
Last call to Eton's cell phone, the re-up went to 12.
He doubles his re-up to 12 kilos? That's her right there.
They ain't doing the dirt, though.
Team leader, keep an eye on that can till we post.
Copy.
Sorry to hear about my boy Sergei.
Eton, too.
You lost some good people.
There'll be some new faces soon.
A week or so.
They'll find you.
Just as they'll find the others that work with us.
A week? I ain't got enough of your good shit to last much past that.
You got anything to lay off before you leave? The last shipment is lost.
Lost? How you mean? The police may be sitting on it.
You ain't sure? There's more where that came from.
Always, there is more.
All right, then.
I'm gonna let your new people find me.
Have a safe trip.
Where you say you off to again? There's 12 in this, 15 in that.
And if the rest of them holds this same pattern Maybe 200 kilos of raw left on the pier.
The Greeks are definitely in the wind.
And we are in the dark.
You want us to take it down to the customs shed, or what? No, you're gonna seal it up and sit on it.
If we're lucky, someone will come calling in a day or so.
You that lucky? If they didn't get onto us when they did, this might've been a hell of a case.
It's on you.
Ambushed? In his own goddamn room? Yeah, he gonna be all right, but he- I don't give a fuck about how he gonna be, man.
You put on out-of-town talent at a high price you expect them to get the motherfucking job done.
He said that thing between us is How did he put it? Absolved.
Absolved? What the fuck do that mean? Mouzone booked out, we worse off than when he came.
If word gets out on the street that we weak like this how the fuck we supposed to maintain our shit? I know, but we gotta hit right back, make a statement.
But Mouzone not saying who did this.
You asked him who it was? - Yeah, I asked him.
Why? - Why what? How you gonna ask a soldier like Mouzone a question like that? Either he gonna say, or he gonna go and work it out.
Either way, you ain't got to be asking him shit.
Man, every market-based business runs in cycles and we going through a down-cycle right now.
String, this ain't about your motherfucking business class either.
It ain't that part of it.
It's that other thing.
The street is the street.
Always.
Man, we gonna get through this bullshit anyway.
No doubt.
You just need to hold tight till I get uptown.
And that day gonna come, but until then we gotta do what we can do, when we can do it.
Yeah, you need to go to Prop Joe.
I ain't gonna argue with you.
You run it as you see fit.
At least until I get home, you do.
No doubt.
Us, man.
Us.
Tape is fucked up.
It's multiplexed.
It's a way to save money.
Instead of one camera, one VCR it's 10 cameras playing on one VCR tape.
Can you make sense of it? - Not a problem, with this software.
We just de-plex it.
De-plex? Let me show you the highlight reel.
Is he flashing a badge? - Looks like it.
That's something you don't see too often John Law in a Mercedes-Benz.
That could be our boy.
Head still on.
Tell me we got cameras inside.
Jesus, my pants are wet.
Yeah.
C'mon, baby.
Yeah.
Re-up gonna be about a week or so late.
My people are having to readjust to some shit.
A week? No later than that, they say.
How it go with Avon today? It's all good.
Our old friend.
What's the news? Port cops are sitting on a can that came off the Adriatica.
Word around the customs shed, it's full of dope.
I mean, about Frank.
What's the district council saying? - Gentlemen.
Mr.
Pakusa, in light of your pending indictment I'd think you'd stay as far away from this hall as possible.
Ain't y'all got some place to go? Just came to make it clear that if there's no cleaning up in here this local will be decertified.
Instead of your union running out of this office it'll be a federal magistrate down the courthouse deciding things.
Take the opportunity to elect new officers or the US Attorney will padlock the door.
And you'll be outside, looking in.
One man, one vote.
Did he have hands? Did he have a face? Yes? Then it wasn't us.
You don't think that had anything to do with this mope? You gotta do better than that, Lester.
This poor guy ain't got a face.
Did I mention the DNA matches? This has nothing to do with me.
Is that the security guard? Walt Stokes.
A good man.
Keeps meticulous records.
Bunk, they tell me you can enhance each frame to get a clear look.
Yeah? Show it to me.
I'll be damned.
Maryland tags.
Juliet-Lima-Yankee That comes back to a BWI rental.
I wonder who rented it.
This is aggravated murder and kidnapping.
In this state, it's a death penalty case.
I didn't kill him.
I was there, but I didn't kill him.
Vondas did.
He cut his throat.
The shepherd was supposed to watch over the women.
Instead, he used them to make money.
One of the women, she fought.
She was killed.
And this idiot kills the rest to make no witnesses.
He had to die.
You want a coffee? Soda? Vodka.
Coffee.
They're down.
All 14 of them.
Abated by the untimely death of a known suspect.
Plus another clearance on a John Doe case, just for laughs.
You wanna tell Rawls? Let him stew a while longer.
One thing, though, we should do right away.
Who's the man above Vondas? The Greek.
What's his name? You want a chance at anything less than death row you're gonna tell me right now whatever it is you know about where those bastards might be.
A hotel at the harbor.
This one? Another.
I can show you.
Go.
Clear! Business or pleasure for you? Business.
Always business.
What did you forget? - Nothing important.
You come to the bar without me? Kiss my black cat's sister's ass.
What happened? - Case hit the wall.
How so? The Sobotka nephew breaks for the smuggling and the drugs.
The Russian breaks for the murder that fucking killed my girls.
We were late on Vondopoulos and The Greek.
How late? - They skipped.
We got interstate flight warrants out, but from what the Sobotka kid says these guys collect passports.
We ain't even got a name for The Greek yet, right? What're we doing with the drug end of the case? I guess we could offer up Dixon and Prop Joe to Narcotics.
See if they want to follow through on their end.
I don't know.
I wouldn't be so quick to throw Joe back into the pond.
A major case squad could have some fun with that mess, don't you think? Lieutenant.
I never told you this.
In fact, if you tell anyone I ever told you this I'll finish my career in fucking Montana or some shit.
Excuse me, sorry.
The leak wasn't your people.
When I called around looking for info on your targets I used the FedCom software, you know? I thought I was talking to some fuck in San Diego.
The 9l11 boys in D.
C.
I'm guessing Vondopoulos or The Greek was an asset to them.
Hooked up like, I don't know, who knows what? I'm sorry, Lieutenant.
World just keeps turning, right? You guys move on to something new.
No one looks back.
It's on me this time.
Anyone? Where are you going? Work.
Frank, you cocksucker.
I can take it from here.
You sure? No one fucks with us on our turf.
Where the fuck else am I gonna go? How's it looking? One ROIRO at North Point.
Graybeards grabbed that.
Nothing else today, really.
Seniority sucks.
If you ain't senior.
All right, man.
This is a great day for Baltimore.

I don't know, man.
I mean, I'm kind of sad.
Them Towers be home to me.
You gonna cry over a housing project now? Man, they should have blew the motherfuckers up a long time ago.
Man, it ain't all been bad.
I mean, I done seen some shit happen up in them Towers that still make me smile.
A few moments from now, the Franklin Terrace Towers behind me, which, sadly, came to represent some of this city's most entrenched problems, will be gone.
Y'all talking about steel and concrete, steel and fucking concrete.
Man, I'm talking about people, memories and shit.
That ain't the same.
They gonna tear this building down.
They gonna build new shit.
But people? They don't give a fuck about people.
You are very soon going to see low and moderately priced houses built in their place.
Yeah! My cousin used to live in 221.
I used to be up in there all the time.
Man, who you be telling? I caught my first pussy up in there.
The girl, Chantay.
Man, why didn't you say? They probably wouldn't be tearing this tower down now.
They could put a big-ass sign in the front.
"Here's where Malik Carr first got his dick wet.
" We could be taking pictures.
Tourists be taking pictures and shit.
Souvenirs of your dick.
He ain't funny.
He just jealous.
What? Jealous of that? You crazy? Chantay? Man, the mention of that bitch make my dick burn.
Yo, ain't no bad pussy, fool.
Yeah, that's what they keep telling your ass down at the clinic.
Keep that shit up.
You ever see this motherfucker walking down to the clinic burnt? Poot be like this.
He looks like a backwards-ass cowboy standing like this and walking like this.
Dick looking like a fried chicken wing.
Now, mistakes have been made, and we will learn from those mistakes.
Reform is not just a watchword with my administration, uh-uh.
No, it's a philosophy.
Yeah! Shit, no matter how many times you get burnt, man, you just keep on doing the same.
Nigger do not learn.
Now, what do you say? Mm? Are you ready for a new Baltimore? Shit gonna be off the hook, yo.
Man, my whole life been around them Towers.
I mean, I feel Shit, I feel like I don't got no home no more.
Housing just moved your mama up to Poplar Grove, didn't it? You ain't homeless, nigger, you got a home.
You just damn near out of work is all.
What you mean? I mean, look.
All over the city, even out in the county, you had people, coke or dope, 24/7.
Where was it they go? Man, look, you live in the projects, you ain't shit.
But you sling product there? You got the game by the ass, man.
Now these downtown suit-wearing-ass bitches snatched the best territory in the city from y'all.
You wanna cry over some shit, cry over that.
All right, everyone.
Count with me.
Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one! Ooh! Hallelujah! About time.
Yeah! Oh, shit.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole Fuck! I just stepped in dog shit.
You hope.
Fuck.
I want them to love me like they love 'Pac Cheese? Can you see him? When the plan is to put the rap game in a choke hold I'm fully focused, man, my money on my mind Got a meal out the deal and I'm still on the grind - Yo, where he at? - Who you mean? Cheese, man.
I'm looking for Cheese, man.
Nigger, you ain't supposed to be dropping names and shit.
Ain't you got no sense? I ain't said shit about shit, man.
I'm just looking to get together with the man.
To see him about nothing at all.
So he be where he be, fool.
Is he at the place that we was at? I'm looking to saddle up and put another bat on this motherfucker.
He need to deal with me today or I'll take it to someone who can handle it.
All right.
"Saddle up and put another bat on the motherfucker"? Settle up and put another bet.
But what was that last part? Man said, "He need to deal with me today, - "or I'll take it to someone who can handle it.
" - Girl, you do have an ear.
.
.
and I ain't changed You should love it, way more than you hate it Oh, you mad, I thought that you'd be happy I made He's looking to get with him.
All right.
Same thing as before? - Same thing I told him.
All right.
.
.
pumping in the club it's on I wink my eye at ya bitch If she smiles she gone If the roof on fire, let that motherfucker burn If you're talking about money, homie, I ain't concerned I'm-a tell you what Banks told me cos go 'head switch the style up If niggers hate them let them hate Then watch the money pile up What are you seeing? Call comes in to Cheese's number two.
He whispers in the man's ear and off they go.
Yeah.
Nothing to the call here.
I figured that.
These guys come correct.
The phones only go so far.
Above that, it's all done as a face-to-face meet.
Three months and we've yet to hear his voice.
And Herc takes the alley to cut that off from Calhoun.
Me and Truck go up the wrong way on Stricker Street? You got a badge, remember? We're doing the same one block over, so they can't come to ground there neither.
When we jump out on these cocksuckers there'll be a designated runner.
Who's gonna sky up, just so we chase his ass.
But fuck him.
We let him go and jack every other motherfucker who stays.
Let's mount up.
Carv.
What's up? He's a complicated man.
And the only one that understands him is his woman.
Seek therapy.
Woo woo! - Narcos! Narcos! Let's see your hands! See your hands, up against the wall! Put your hands up.
You ain't gotta push me.
Hands up.
Let me see you got your hands up.
Anything on you? - Here he goes.
Later, son.
Step light.
Yo, was that the stash? Fuck! Let's go, let's go! Cut him off on Stricker.
I've got Calhoun.
Where you at? Lost him.
Rear of Stricker, 800 block.
Clear on Riggs.
He just went across Stricker in an alley headed for Gilmor.
Fuck.
We got rabbit in the alleys near Gilmor.
How about some backup? Roger that.
Dozerman, what's your 20? Hey, Doze, where you at, man? - Did he cross Stricker? - Definitely.
Everybody to Lambeth.
Who is the man that would risk his neck for his brother man? He went to ground in this block, man.
Hey, listen to me, you little fucking piece of shit! I'm gonna tell you one thing only about the Western boys you are playing with! We do not lose! And we do not forget! And we do not give up! Ever! So I'm only gonna say this one time, if you march your ass out here right now and put the bracelets on, we will not kick the living shit out of you! But if you make us go into them weeds for you, or if you make us come back here tomorrow night, catch you on a corner, I swear to fucking Christ, we will beat you longer and harder than you beat your own dick! Cos you do not get to win, shitbird.
We do! With these Towers down, we need to take the rest of them low-rises and all them Fayette Street corners.
Take them? Take them how, Mr.
Bodie? - Say "fuck it" and take them.
Nigger, you ain't got the floor.
Chair don't recognize your ass.
Take them how? - I don't know.
Just let them Fayette niggers know, you know, we serious, right? You know, get or get got.
Yeah, like you did on McCulloh Street last year? Snatch the real estate, load up, and just wait for some shit to happen, right? No, man, we done worrying about territory, man, what corner we got, what project.
Game ain't about that no more.
It's about product.
Yeah.
We got the best goddamn product, so we gonna sell no matter where we are, right? Product, motherfuckers.
Product.
Chair recognize Slim Charles.
Chair, our people got to stand somewhere, don't they? I mean, all the product in the world don't mean nothing if you constantly get your ass whipped for standing on another fool's corner.
All right.
We had six of the Towers on the Terrace, right? All running 24/7.
But three of those we gave to Prop Joe to upgrade the package that we was putting out there, right? Now, how much you think we lost in the deal? All right, the answer is, we made more.
Half the real estate, twice the product.
And our profit went up eight or nine per cent.
Your territory ain't gonna mean shit if your product is weak.
Go ahead and ask them motherfuckers trying to sell them Ford Tempos, and you got niggers riding around in Japanese and German cars in America.
Territory ain't shit.
Especially when you consider it's the fight for the territory that be bringing the bodies, and the bodies that bring the police.
Yeah, but how we gonna stand - Yo.
Chair ain't recognize your ass, man.
How we gonna stand on some - Come on, man.
How we gonna stand on some corner that's not ours? Well, we got the best product.
So the chances are, we'll be able to bring in the competition by offering to re-up with us from our package.
Feel me? Everybody making money, sharing the real estate.
Slim Charles.
What if they don't cop our re-up, though? I'm gonna worry about that when it happen.
Until then, Mr.
Charles, we gonna handle this shit like businessmen.
Sell the shit, make the profit, and later for that gangster bullshit.
Yeah.
Do the chair know we gonna look like punk-ass bitches out there? Motherfucker, I will punk your ass for saying such shit! - String! - What? - Poot did have the floor.
Shut the fuck up, man.
This nigger too ignorant to have the fucking floor.
Y'all niggers need to start looking at the world in a new fucking light.
Start thinking about this shit like some grown fucking men, not some niggers off the fucking corner, you heard me? Adjourn your asses.
Y'all look like shit.
Well, we been stuck in that vacant since before dawn.
How should we look? - Proud to know you, Detective.
Mm.
Nice look on you.
Dress for success.
Oh, I watched that motherfucker Cheese take re-ups, move weight all day, and not once did he go near a fucking telephone.
Closest it comes is a call to a hanger-on's cellphone ten feet away.
Which brings me to what I was just discussing with the lieutenant.
We've been up on these cellphones for nearly six months.
The only drug talk we have is from street-level small fry.
So, the feeling is that two weeks from now we don't go to the court for another extension.
We charge what we have, try to roll someone up at Cheese or one of Joe's other lieutenants.
Who are you kidding? We don't have a case worth making yet.
And at this rate, we never will.
Oh, for Christ's sake.
As a plan on paper, it was a good one.
We came out of the port investigation with good phone numbers for Prop Joe's people.
I guarantee if we can push this thing above the street, we'll see Prop Joe himself.
We start seeing Joe, we'll see Stringer.
I can't ask for more time on a wire that's going nowhere.
Either we figure a way to punch through the wall or we let it go.
Baker? - Yes, sir.
So you must be Castor.
Yes, sir.
Officer Aaron Castor.
You any kin to Lloyd Castor? - Yes, sir, that's my uncle.
Good police.
Do you know where you are? - You too.
Where are you? - The Western, Major.
Right this very second, you getting your hind parts kicked, and you screaming for help.
Your backup's looking all over the place cos he don't know where the fuck you are.
And that means I gotta explain to your next of kin how you went and got yourselves killed on my watch.
Sir, we're at 1034 North Mount, first floor rear.
Good.
Now, which way is north? Point.
That's east.
Now, if you're in foot pursuit it might help your backup to know what direction you're running.
Even numbers tell you north and west.
Odds, south and east.
Compasses.
Until you learn that much, you carry one.
Welcome to the Western.
Gentlemen, scuff yourself up a little.
And learn the stare.
Hey, Carv, where you at? I'm at a desk outside the roll call room on the first floor of 1034 North Mount.
My feet are facing west and my dick is pointing south-southwest.
Bunny Colvin's been giving that speech as long as you guys been sucking air.
Officer Raybold, pick up 7A.
Officer Raybold, line 7A.
Where you at, shitbird? You're in handcuffs, in my house, looking stupid, ain't you? Fleeing and eluding? Do we have a drug charge here? Loitering in a designated drug-free zone.
Let me rephrase.
Do we have drugs? He raised up when we hit his corner and grabbed this bag.
We pursued and recovered the bag.
But no drugs.
And they whooped my ass.
Western District way.
So, what did we learn? Using half my district K-9 and the copter to bring a 14-year-old to bay.
What did we learn? - That you can't raise up and run from a drug corner in Sector One without my boot finding your ass.
Right? I got it, I got it, I got it.
Got it.
Cast iron.
20 at least.
It'd be better if it was copper.
Yeah, be better if it was gold.
But you gotta take life as it goes along, you know? Oh, shit, oh, shit.
What's wrong with you? - Sorry.
You're past sorry.
Come on, man, chill.
We don't need this, man.
You think you fucked up now? - What's up? - Look what they did to my ride.
Well, do it or don't.
But I got someplace to be.
Thank you for your kindness.
Y'all got to pay something, anything.
There be a principle here.
If we had a dime, you'd have a dime.
We're a little insufficient.
We're on our way to the metal man.
We'll come back and pay for everything.
I promise you.
Hey, hey.
After the junk man, we gotta roll past Kmart.
Definitely.
One last question, Commissioner.
Looking back over the past months, if I read the felony breakdowns correctly, you've seen an up-tick in shootings and serious assaults in the Eastern District.
Can we assume you're already addressing this? Let me throw that over to Bill.
As deputy for operations, I'm sure he's got a handle on our response.
I do indeed.
In answer to your question, Councilman, I can assure you that we've put additional tactical teams on a seven to three shift in every Eastern sector.
Additionally, we've put the district flex squad on a seven to three shift, being as those are the hours when we're seeing a spike in aggravated assaults.
Thank you, Deputy.
Anything else for these, er, esteemed constables? No? OK, then, I guess I'll see you all tomorrow night for the quarterly budget review.
Ervhey.
If you don't mind, I'd like to get with you about a couple things.
Can we get lunch? Glad to, Mr.
Chairman.
How about Werner's in a half-hour? - Half-hour, good.
You see Watkins in the back? - Yeah.
Who was that skirt with him? That's him there in the orange? That's Drac.
Our last best hope.
Talkingest motherfucker I ever heard on a wiretap.
Here, listen.
No, no, no, the other thing.
The good The other thing, my nigger.
You talking him? No, her.
I mean her! Cocaine, nigger, you feel me? Goddamn, you ignorant - You ever hear that on a wire? - He doesn't report to anyone that matters.
Right now, Drac's re-ups are with Lavell Mann.
He's got corners over on Preston and Bond.
He was pretty close to selling us weight.
No shit.
Sydnor's been working toward him for a couple of months now.
Lavell's a soldier.
He's not gonna roll up on Prop Joe.
That's true.
But if we take him with a hand-to-hand, they gotta promote someone to replace him.
Yeah, why Drac? - One thing about our boy? - That's Prop Joe's nephew.
On his mama's side.
Y'all know you ain't got pants? And there's Dominic standing in line.
When he meets the President, who's looking the other way, Dominic reaches around Carter, - grabs his belt, yanks it up - Secret Service must've shit.
He says, "Hey, Mr.
President, remember me?" And Carter actually remembers.
"Sure, Dominic DiPietro from Baltimore, on the campaign trail.
" And Dominic puts his finger in Jimmy Carter's face and says, "Where's that money you promised me "to fix up my streets?" - Unbelievable.
That's nothing.
After losing to Reagan, Carter comes here to speak at a dinner and Dominic is ushered up to him.
Carter asks about his health and Dominic says, "You son of a bitch, "I'm still waiting on that money for my streets.
" - Come on! - No shit.
Carter's just grinning through those big teeth.
Some guy grabs Dominic's arm, and off he goes.
Guy says, "Christ, Dominic, you just called the President of the United States an SOB.
" He shrugs, he says, "Fuck him.
I don't need him.
He lost.
" No, that's good.
That is good.
And that is from whence I come.
Proud son of the fighting First District.
But the truth is I don't wanna be just another muldoon like Dominic DiPietro, warming the backbench.
Not with the way things are right now in the city.
We're losing 10,000, And when you ask them why they're moving to the county, know what they say? - Schools.
And crime.
Schools and crime.
And there goes our tax base right across the line, and the mayor's acting like a 10% bump in the murder rate is business as usual.
Check, please.
You know what? If you were smart, you'd come to me when the mayor shorts you on hiring, on equipment, on overtime, on cars.
You get the shit end of the stick, you come to me.
Not publicly.
I know you can't cross the mayor publicly, but back-door, come to me, and I can use that subcommittee to give you what you need.
Thanks.
Kind offer.
Erv, I can help you.
And we can turn this damn city around - But long ago, when I was just starting out in the department, I had the good fortune to be taught a little something about chain of command.
And right now, in my capacity as acting commissioner, I report to Mayor Royce.
I got your coffee.
Leave a tip if you want.
So what do you need to see me for? - You getting out tomorrow, right? - Yeah.
Probably try and reach out.
What you gonna do first? - Huh? Tomorrow.
What you gonna do? I don't know.
I know what be first.
You don't know? I know what be first.
I'm going home.
Time out! Back in! Watch the hole.
Watch the hole.
Short-timer.
You only got the one day left, huh? - You done the one, just gotta do that other.
All right.
Like they say.
You only do two day.
There's the day you go in - The day you come out.
I don't know.
I did 14 years.
Well, yeah, you know.
You did you a little stretch, true.
But you still a soldier, right? You know them Towers done came down now, huh? The Terrace, the Murphy Homes.
All that shit gone, man.
A lot of things is different now since you been up in here.
Lot of changes.
Yeah, no doubt.
But, I mean, you know, shit.
Some things, they stay the same, man.
I mean, the game's the game.
And the thing is, since the Towers is gone, I'm gonna need to take my thing up to some new places.
You feel me? You know I'm gonna be home soon enough, right? Yeah, first parole hearing, I'm out.
For real.
Shit is fixed right.
I come home Huh.
Shit! There's gonna be a little hell to be paid.
You know what I mean? A good soldier ain't gonna lack for work.
Take that number, man.
When you out, you call.
We'll hook you up, no problem.
You know, it's like a coming-home gift.
All right? Call it.
Dude, er The joint might have broke him.
Boss, you talking about a homie who walked up and shot Elijah Davis.
Broad daylight, at Pennsie and Gold.
Then picked up the phone, dialled 911, told the police, "I just shot a nigger, come get him.
" That dude ain't breaking.
Nah.
Look, we had the 20, but we had to go buy some pants.
If you take this short money, we get back at you tomorrow.
We get you on the comeback.
Yo, he want two for 16.
Trying to get two, man.
I'm trying to get two.
From this young motherfucker.
No.
We a little short now, but tomorrow, I'll be back here with the four.
Joey said no.
Spider bags and red tops! Fucking guy, man.
At these prices, I can't afford more phone surveillance.
I'm aware of that.
And right now, the plan is to go for a hand-to-hand on one lieutenant - a couple rungs down from Proposition Joe.
And then roll the lieutenant up? We don't think he'll have much roll to him.
Joe's people are pretty schooled.
The hope is that they promote this mid-level dealer who's a fool to replace him.
Drac.
We're on his cellphone.
If he gets promoted, maybe he talks to Joe or Joe's top people.
We get that far, maybe we start to see Stringer Bell.
Hm.
What makes you think they'll promote the wrong man? We do it all the time.
Look, speaking of promotions, I sent yours over to the Hall, as promised.
And? - And the mayor's holding it up.
My understanding is he wants to know what your wife is doing.
My wife? Yeah.
There's a rumor that she's gonna take a run at a council seat.
Maybe try to knock off Eunetta Perkins.
That's my wife's business.
Yes, it is.
But the mayor counts Eunetta as an ally.
Our deal was for a permanent unit and the next vacancy for major.
You got your unit.
And I sent your name over to the Hall.
I kept my word.
But the mayor, he may wanna know who his friends are before he makes a new commander.
Where'd she say she was gonna be at? Near the dugout, first base side.
She'll turn up.
When is she supposed to bring them over to you? Middle of the fourth.
Dad, can I have a hot dog? Yeah, as soon as the guy comes around.
Speaking of which, where's the beer man? Oh, there they are.
Look.
Damn.
They got great seats.
Oh, hell.
What? - Who's that on her left? The suit.
Just a friend? - No, he's in the cake.
Who comes to an Orioles game in a suit, spends half the time on a cellphone? Downtown lawyer.
Something wealthy like that.
Wish we had more of it.
Long way to go for half a shot.
It'll be better tomorrow, Bubs.
Well What kind of dope fiend be talking about tomorrow? Tomorrow ain't shit.
Today, Johnny.
Today.
I hunted down all that metal.
Lugged it around like a dog.
I nearly get killed over a scratch of metal, so that I gotta beg for my life.
Lost my trousers, man, my fucking trousers.
And then I'm begging again for half a shot? I swear to God, man, I'm not even high.
We just missed a foul, Pa.
Yeah? Our seats are great.
We're practically on the field.
Yeah, my friend, Dennis, he gets company seats every now and then.
Where are you sitting? - Mezzanine.
Come on.
Oh! - No, you guys go.
Your dad hasn't seen you all week.
Don't take their jackets off, cos Sean's just getting over a cold, OK? Jimmy, right? Dennis Kerpelman.
Great kids.
Anyway, nice meeting you.
Do you want anything from the stand? - No, thank you.
Uh, don't stay till the last inning, cos it's a school night.
Bye.
You got spatter going in two different directions, just off the curb.
Yeah.
Shooting on the West Side.
Another one? Christ, where? North and Pulaski, Cole's up.
Cole's working a cutting off Belvedere.
See if Crutchfield's back from the Westport scene.
If not, call Bunk at home.
Bunk's off day.
Hey, fuck his off day.
I love this town.
Perlozzo's pretty quick to yank a pitcher, ain't he? I'm thinking of becoming a woman.
Red-hot peanuts! Office.
Yeah? I'm at the ball game.
The ball game.
Yeah, what about Cole? Call him.
Oh, shit.
All right.
Can you believe this? They caught five tonight.
They're telling me to come in on my day off.
Five, huh? City's jumping bad, man.
OK, listen.
I gotta go to work, all right? - All right.
Mr.
Jimmy's gonna Ooh! He's gonna take you home.
You're on your own, partner.
Number 32 Luis Matos.
Hey, Ma.
And Erdman Avenue? - No ballistic information.
Are you sure? Take your time, Major.
Can you believe that cocksucker Carcetti? Thinking I'm gonna talk out of school.
Any day now, Marvin.
What can a white councilman give me that a black mayor can't? No, you played it right.
It was a.
38 recorded on Erdman Avenue, sir.
So what you are, in effect, saying, Major, is rather than looking at this cluster of robberies you had along Monument Street, you chose to investigate each using separate personnel.
No, sir, three of those cases were commercial robberies, so we sent those downtown to CID.
My people had responsibility - God damn it, Marvin! Did you just invoke the word "responsibility" to explain why you didn't get on top of this shit? Did you just do that? I don't think you know what the word means.
When I look at the 24s and plainly see that some.
38-caliber asshole is raping your entire district all the way from Greenmount to fucking Edison Highway.
It's policing like that that makes it possible for us to get hit with five fucking homicides in a single fucking night, people! - Poor fucking Marvin.
Better him than us, right? Based on your testimony, the buy itself will be enough to charge, but get him saying something on tape, it's even better.
Are you sure this guy wants to sell you weight? We don't wanna force this.
I been stroking this guy for two months.
That's not what he asked you.
This guy is ripe and ready, Kima.
It ain't no thing.
They're about ready.
You living out of the office, Cedric? All right, Drac is depending on you people.
Mount up.
And find your way home.
Look a little light to be an ounce, don't you think? No, man.
Ain't nothing light, it's just settled, is all.
If it does what it should, I'm gonna come back to you for three, maybe four a week.
Yeah, that could work.
We good, then? - We good.
That's it.
Take him down.
Somebody snitching! - Shut the fuck up! Let's go, Lavell.
It's Cutty.
Was told I could call for help.
What about the Oxbow? The Oxbow on Laurens, at Fulton.
All right.
Damn.
They caught Lavell with a whole ounce.
Might not be no bail for that much weight.
They might take it federal, run wild on they ass.
And Joey gotta give Lavell's corner to someone, right? Might be my turn.
Our boy won't shut up.
Caroline, you say that like it's a bad thing.
Let's just hope we're listening to a candidate for elevation.
I heard about you, man.
I hear your name used to ring out.
You got something for me? You see where shorty's sitting at right there? You'll find a little help.
And when you ready, we got some real work for you, all right? Jesus! Hey.
How you doing? OK.
We were just talking about you.
Really? You know Denise, from the sorority.
Charles, of course.
Always a pleasure, Lieutenant.
Good to see you.
I don't think you've met Delegate Watkins.
How do you do? - Nice to meet you.
We were saying you fill out a lieutenant's uniform nicely.
Makes an impression on the campaign lit.
That matters? Well, Marla's a new face taking on a long-time incumbent.
Everything matters, I'm afraid.
Well, anything I can do to help.
I'll get out of the way and leave you all to it.
Marla, I have to tell you that your photo with Cedric works really well on the mailer.
I sure hope he knows what he's in for because it's gonna be a long race for the both of you.
And that is not going to go easy.
Speaking of which, we've got to Jesus.
Who called the media? No, you'd think the man might respect my shit enough to let me step up.
But it ain't even go like that.
Why not? He gonna give Lavell's corner to that off-brand nigger, Cheese.
Joe's my uncle.
I mean, I'm kin to the fat motherfucker.
That idiot works for us, he'd be a deputy commissioner by now.
Ain't no luck at all to this case.
How, in all good conscience, can I, as chairman of this subcommittee, authorize any more overtime when it's clear from the data in front of me that that money is not gonna go to line officers, or working detectives, but is being used to pay for drivers and clerical and So that two colonels and three majors can attend a community policing seminar in Miami.
Mr.
Chairman What does South Beach have to teach this department about making Baltimore safer? I have no idea and you have no idea, and it is an embarrassment.
Cedric, they're gone.
I wanna thank you for this.
No problem.
It's not easy, I know.
But they seem to think it matters that I present myself as I'm fine with it.
All those years you were all about my career Well, it's the least I can do, right? Good night.
We're not holding anything up in his district.
Repaving, foot patrols, streetlights.
He's getting his share.
Unless it's not about his district it's about him.
Maybe he's got big eyes for something.
For what? Not me, not my chair, not in this town.
No.
If that guy came off any whiter, he'd be see-through.
But if that's it, come on with it.
In fact, please, Jesus.
Or maybe John the Baptist.
Soften you up for someone else.
If he's gonna bang us on crime - Bang me on crime.
Look, is there any way for you to talk to this guy? Keep him from crawling up my ass? He's old First District.
Not a lot of favors we can call in over that side of town.
We've got to show him something, right? - Four to five per cent drop in felonies.
And murders.
Get the murders down to under 250 for the year.
All due respect, Mr.
Mayor, we're at 232 now.
What can you realistically do? Our best-case scenario, if we bump overtime, is - 275, Christ.
That's a promise, right? and this asshole Carcetti has no issue.
Gentlemen, the word from on high is that felony rates district by district will decline by five per cent before the end of the year.
We are dealing in certainties.
You will reduce the UCR felonies by five per cent or more, or I've always wanted to say this let no man come back alive.
In addition, we will hold this year's murders to 275 or less.
Christ.
Feeling a little fazed, Colonel Foerster? A little dyspeptic? Dys-who? No, sir.
I'm good to go.
Here's a fun fact for you.
If Baltimore had New York's population, we'd be clocking 4,000 murders a year at this rate.
There is no excuse I will accept.
I don't care how you do it.
Just fucking do it.
Er, Deputy as familiar as we all are with the urban crime environment, I think we all understand there are certain processes by which you can reduce the number of overall felonies.
You can reclassify an agg assault, or you can unfound a robbery, but, er, how do you make a body disappear? There isn't one of you in this room who isn't here by appointment.
If you want to continue wearing those oak clusters, you will shut up and step up.
Any of you who can't bring in the numbers we need, will be replaced by someone who can.
That is all.
Jesus, Bunny.
What got into you? Another six months to my 30.
I'm out the door on a major's pension.
The hell they could do to me.
Spider bags, red tops.
Any other bright ideas? - How about a bug? A bug? Yeah, bug one or two of the big corners where these mopes hang.
Watching those corners over on Ashland yesterday, I'm seeing dumpsters, weeds, maybe a utility pole.
You hide a bug in the right corner, you make this case.
We don't have the manpower.
Not to mention the money.
And for what? We're still a long way from a quality target.
I say we come down off the wire, charge what we can, and move on.
We come down early two years ago, we left a real bastard on the street.
We're gonna let that same son of a bitch beat me again? How many times do you let Stringer Bell go around the board? Collect another fucking 200 Million.
There's other fish in the barrel, McNulty.
Stringer's the target.
There isn't a better fucker out there.
You know it, Lieutenant.
Don't you let him go soft on this.
It's you against the world, is it? What the fuck did I do? Red tops, spider bags! You up? Step the fuck off, motherfucker.
You got a need, you talk to one of the young 'uns.
I ain't in the market.
I'm selling.
You look like the right person to be talking to, chief.
You seem like you steady running this shit here.
What, are you some kind of police or something? I'm a long motherfucking way from the police.
I just finished a 14-year bit in Jessup.
Got a package as a coming-home present.
G-pack.
Well, why not sell that shit your own self? I just came home.
I ain't trying to get my ass violated.
Even split.
Shit.
It's all profit to you.
Risk mine, too.
What make you think I ain't on paper or some shit? Cool.
Give your shit to my boy.
He good with it.
Then come past tonight.
All right.
And one last item for you gents.
It seems that Foxtrot was hovering over the station house a few days ago and caught a lovely view of about 700 or 800 discarded beer cans on the garage roof.
Seriously, no off-duty drinking on the station lot.
And if you do find yourself holding a beer can, don't throw it on the roof, take it home with you.
Come on, guys, the memo came down from our beloved deputy of operations.
All right, get out of here.
Don't get captured.
At ease.
Anything from day shift? - Nothing that'll make the papers.
I'm gonna ride the district until the deputy major gets in.
If you need me, hit the radio.
Distribution? Possession.
And some loitering.
Loitering? And behaving like assholes in the presence of sworn officers, boss.
Hey.
Hey, what's up? What's going on? Yeah, what's up, dawg? Five-0 creeping.
It's midnight relief coming in.
What the hell is all this? You don't look at what you did before, you do the same shit all over.
I'm out of here.
Spiders with a red top! One and one! Where he at? Spider bags! Got those spider bags! The fuck you looking at? Huh? - What, do you want a go? - Just my split.
Some bad luck there.
The police came through, snatched up a ground stash or two.
Shit happened to be yours.
Fuck, right? - You got a number? - A number? Back in the day, when a player tried to say he lost a package to the police, he had to give up a number for the report.
Well, we ain't back in the day.
I'm getting fucking tired of your ass.
Yeah, walk it off, motherfucker.
Fucking old-school-ass bitch.
Got them spider bags.
Two'll get you three.
What? - You up? Spider bags, two gets three.
You up or you not? What you doing, boy? Man! Dumb rookie.
Don't you know five-0?
Yeah, so we out on Carlton.
This old white motherfucker and his wife roll up.
He's like, "Young man, you know where the Poe House is?" I'm like, "Unc, you kidding? Look around, take your pick.
" So, the old man, he's like, "The Poe House.
The Edward Allan Poe House.
" Shit, you back already? First of the month, yo.
I'm like, "I don't know no Edward Allan Poe.
" The man look at me all sad and shit, like I let him down.
I know you know you ain't coming in here.
What? Shorty, I don't know you.
You know Miss Elaine in the back room, right? This her brother, Earl, from the VA Hospital.
He's supposed to stay with her.
Can you help me inside? I'm Chantal.
So, what's good? Thank you, young man.
Oh, shit! Oh, shit.
Now, now, now.
Hey, yo, Omar.
Yo, all due respect, but this right here it's a Barksdale joint, man.
Do tell When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole You think this boy woke up yesterday morning, sat on the edge of his bed and said, "Today's my day to die"? You don't think this can happen to you? Doc, hold that up.
Look at what that bullet did to his heart.
That's his heart.
What was that, Scared Straight? More like bored stiff.
What's the deal with this? I go down to MCI Jessup, hoping to pull up a fellow with some years on him, see if he's ready to share his feelings.
Turns out "Barksdale, D'Angelo" got himself rung up as a suicide.
DOD of 7/21/03.
Who worked it? State Police.
You want me to pull the postmortem on this? Yeah, he's kind of a made guy down there.
I just want to make sure nobody did the suicide to him.
It ain't nothing but dust and bricks over there now.
Shit, all the battling we did to take them Towers, man.
You're trying to telling me we back on the street with the rest of them? We ain't beaten.
Now the Towers is gone, everybody know how it got to go down.
I say we send our people over there early.
Corner chiefs, like, "Yo, we here now," you know what I mean, "but we bringing something to the table.
" Lay it out like it's their lucky day.
No flexing, no threats.
Just be like, "This a good thing.
" But you know, we gonna need good corners.
That's what we gonna need, close to downtown.
Get the workaday trade.
Talking about, like, Fremont.
Fayette.
Yeah, make us like $40,000, $50,000 a day, easy.
Yeah, I'm on it.
And you know everybody watching us on this, man.
They wanna see if we gonna fuck this up now that the Towers are down.
You know what I'm saying? They measuring us up.
They wanna see if we're gonna be weak or real.
If a fool step to us, man, we gonna do what we got to do.
But it's them bodies that got you in here.
If we can do this without the bodies, we should.
Know what I mean? Especially now we light on muscle.
Speaking of muscle, you hear from that man I sent you? Yeah, Cutty from the cut.
Yeah, he rang, we took care of him.
Good, good.
How you fixed for the hearing? - It's all good, man.
Shit.
Levy got everything straightened up tight for me, man.
I'll be home before it get cold.
Terrace came down.
So? So, we're coming in.
To my corners? I don't think so.
Hey, hold on now.
This is gonna be good for you, too.
Yeah? Now, how you figure that? Yo, what you paying now, 37, 38? Yo, we can go 31, 32, shots, man.
The shit's so John Blaze, you can step on it seven, eight times and still take the cake.
Spider bags! Got those spider bags! Damn.
Yo, y'all seen Marlo? Y'all ain't seen him? Do y'all know him? Marlo? Yeah, yeah, he was here.
Now he ain't.
Get those spider bags! Spider bags! Jesus, Tommy.
I'd like to shit, when I looked up, saw you on the news, giving it to Erv.
You fucker, you're up to something.
I'm up to nothing, I'm telling you.
I can help him, he can help me.
A little itch here, a little scratch there.
This is a win-win for you, ain't it? He won't play.
You beat the shit out of him because crime is up.
Press loves it and you score.
Flip side is that if he caves you get yourself a snitch in the mayor's inner circle.
So what's my role in your little drama? I thought you might broker a meeting.
You know, help your fearless leader see the light about his new friend on the Council.
And I should tell him what? Make nice or invest heavily in petroleum jelly? Hey, his ass, his choice.
You didn't talk to him? - I couldn't find the motherfucker.
Man, we just walk up, we gonna bump.
There.
Middle of the block, right there.
Yo, where that whistle at? Whoa, h-hold on.
Wait for Marlo.
Yo, Cheese.
Where you been at, man? Nigger, that ain't nothing but bait.
Just soap your bitch.
Who's my Dawg? You my Dawg? Who's my Dawg? Who's my baby? You make Daddy some money, all right? I'll take that bet! OK, Cheese! Yeah.
Anybody I want? Anybody.
I want more than one.
I want the Olsen twins.
You got them.
Slaves.
All they live for is to get you off.
But, so now, who you gonna do for them? One guy, one act, one time.
Right, and the minute I name a guy, you're gonna be like, "I knew you were a cocksucker from the first time I laid eyes on you.
"Steve McQueen? That's your fantasy? "You fucking closet-case motherfucker.
" No.
Steve McQueen? - Fuck you.
It's a set-up.
Both Olsen twins.
Ashley.
Kate.
Mary-Kate.
And, yeah, I admire their body of work.
They're yours.
All you got to do is name a guy.
I'm not catching, I'm pitching.
No problem.
Corner men out of the pit.
Release your dogs.
Yeah! I got that! Break your dogs! Look at him killing.
Bait.
Oh, shit, there it is.
Can't it just be like this unbearable-looking woman? You know, like that old tune from The Golden Girls? The short one with the Coke-bottle glasses.
A guy.
Hey, yo.
Huh? Let me ask you a question.
Where do you get those hats with the bills over the ears like that? I go into all the stores and the only ones I can find are the ones with the bills in the front.
No, it's the same.
Just turn it sideways on your head.
Thanks.
Thank you.
That's a knucklehead from the low-rises there.
The Terrace is spreading out.
Got to go somewheres, I guess.
Don't think you all needed to do that.
He turned cur on me, man.
No, I think you got played.
So, I'm guessing from the Terrace them being all cute about the property line.
I wanted to wait and see what you wanted us to do about it.
So, what you want us to do? Get back to work.
All right.
That's why they spilling drinks all over your dress Your boy really jammed me, that little prick.
It was all over the news.
Hm.
You did not look particularlycommissioner-like.
The mayor told me the same thing.
You can't have that shit every week.
Not if you want His Honour to give you the job permanent.
Tommy's a good kid, usually.
An ass pain when he wants something.
But mostly good people.
I don't give a shit what he is.
Well, you can't have him pounding on you, Erv.
Throw him a bone.
He'll take care of you.
All right.
But I draw the line at going behind the mayor for this guy.
You can't sit where I'm sitting and back-door the fucking mayor.
Sorry I'm late, guys.
The kid had a Little League game.
It started late.
Well, I'll leave you boys to it.
And what I have brought together, let no man tear asunder.
He win? - Who? Your kid, his team.
Shit, who keeps score? I mean, yes.
It's a little hectic, but everybody stepping off at the right time.
These corner boys we dealing with, I don't think they even listen to their own people.
Yeah, I'm gonna talk to peoples.
Where you at? Marlo? I can't find him.
And you told us not to start nothing.
So I set up in the middle of the block.
You know, even that got hard stares.
I don't It ain't gonna hold, I don't think.
Now, this Marlo, how hard you looking for him? Why ain't you out there looking for this motherfucker right now? 'Cause you called this meeting.
Shut the door.
What's your good news, man? - Omar right inside the stash.
Couple ounces of raw, already vialled, 600.
Cocksuckers even took my watch.
Second stash this month they done got to.
I mean, he called you by name, String.
I mean, all due respect, but, dude, like, unless you step to him, it's gonna be like this.
All right, man.
Double the muscle on every stash we got.
And if the man coming, make ready for the man.
It's not personal.
I swear to God, it is never personal with me.
Truth is, I've been a councilman for almost three years now.
And it's a long fucking time to be ignored.
In Baltimore, a white boy doesn't stand much chance running citywide.
Maybe the legislature, if the right seat opens up.
But until then, I'm stuck in a job with no power, except getting potholes filled.
All due respect, Councilman, you're fucking with me because, what, you're bored? A little, yeah.
What the fuck? When it comes to the crime thing, this city can use all the help it can get.
If you're looking for dirt, there isn't any.
There's always fucking dirt.
But right now, I'm just looking to know how we can do better.
Now you give me that much, I can try and get you what you need privately.
No hearings, no press, no grandstanding.
And if I don't play ball, you're gonna have my ass every time I'm in front of your committee, right? - One thing comes to mind.
Shoot.
I can't get my marked units back from Dickman Street to save my life.
Cars that are shopped for service don't come back for weeks.
You tell the mayor? - Not that you heard it from me.
Of course not.
How much these? - 10,000 a set.
A nigger show that on a ride, he hanging a sign on himself.
"Lock my ass up.
" No shit.
So how you gonna play it? If they from the Terrace, that's Avon.
I know.
And Avon, he coming home, too.
Well, if you inclined to work something out, that's one thing.
If not, Avon can seriously handle up.
I know.
So if you want to hold on to what's yours, you best be ready.
Remember that Barksdale kid? The one who took all the weight? Tied his neck to a doorknob in the prison library, sat his ass down.
I don't know.
Men of color usually don't do themselves.
I mean, take me, for instance.
Yeah, you got all the reason in the world.
And yet here I am, still standing.
Give or take.
You looked at the scene photos? - No, there ain't none.
State Police dogged it.
My turn, Bunk.
Come on.
Go with number three.
All right.
You gonna play my song, darling? - I can make you hit the high notes.
Hey, Bunk.
Hey, look, I saw her first, Jimmy.
Come on, man.
I got a place here in Camden.
Come on, be a gentleman.
I'm being a gentleman, man.
I'm really not interested, OK? - Come on, let's go.
It's all pink, baby.
I'm really sorry, he's had too much to drink.
It's OK.
Thank you.
Thanks.
You all right? - Yeah.
You get yourself home? - Yeah.
Knock it out.
No, the baddest nigger of all time? - Who? This nigger from New York, from the olden days, Bumpy something.
He'd do shit like run up to a police station by hisself.
No.
You know, shit like that.
Cops be like hiding, like, "Yo, Bumpy, we sorry, man, we sorry.
"Please go away.
Please, please.
" Woof.
Obtain employment and refrain from associating with criminals, and keep us informed of your residence and any change in residence.
So I gather you're not working at this time.
They still do morning shape-ups down at the market? I don't know and I don't care.
Just get a job, any job.
"Woof"? - "Woof", like a dog.
Oh, shit, it was like Blam! It was Cheese's boy, Tri.
So you gonna hit back or what? - You got a better shot? - Yeah.
Inside.
Did he hang himself twice? He could have been leaning forward till he blacked out, then slid down.
Or how about I come up at him from behind and Then set him down, make it look like, "Goodbye cruel world.
" - What do the scene shots show? - There were none taken.
Troopers really fucked the pooch on this one.
All I have is a half-assed report.
Reads like the investigator went off his Ritalin.
What's a "large ecchy"? - Large ecchymotic area, mid-back.
Bruising.
What, mid-back as in Or he banged himself a few days earlier in the shower.
But yeah, maybe.
Nothing like a definite maybe.
Tri finally got that M.
Done it on foot, too.
Caroline.
Nigger lying in chalk, but my boy Tri got that dapple all up his sleeve.
Looks like polka dots.
But that's just something you gotta know from experience.
Know what I'm saying? I even had to school him on the whistle, still walking around with it.
"Yo, Tri, stash that shit at Neesey's.
What's wrong with you?" You know them niggers is gonna get mad busy over this.
So we getting busy, too.
What time you coming over? Damn, bitch, ain't you even listening? You still there? Shakedown! Time out.
Do that again.
Do what again? That thing with your hand.
Do it in my face.
What the fuck you talking Oh, whoa! - I ain't done nothing.
Can't do that.
Got a lot of room in here! The law think they can do what the fuck they want.
Yo, he ain't do nothing.
Fuck the police! - No, man, we was just hanging.
Just slinging.
How'd you work it out with the corner crews, you guys from the Terrace coming in? - I don't know what you talking about.
Well, you best watch your ass.
'Cause the slingers out here, they're like the crack babies' babies.
Man, every year everybody's like "Yeah, these kids out here, they're a new breed.
"I ain't seen nothing like this before.
This the end of the world.
" Look around you, fuckhead.
This seem like the dawn of a new day to you? Can I go now? Or you want to slap me up some more first? Get the fuck out of here.
How about a hand job? Huh? Man, you don't even get Weezy Jefferson for a hand job.
Come on.
Dozerman.
Wanna call it a day? They came back on us this time.
Dazz and them.
They got Peanut.
Shit, is Peanut dead? - No, he's OK.
His brains are all over the sidewalk.
But he's OK.
What the hell do you think? - Shit.
I'll get back at you.
All right.
Well, that's two we heard about.
What the hell's going on? Drug war, maybe? - What's up? - Nothing good, man.
I ain't sleep since I capped his ass.
Close my eyes, see him laying there all bloody and shit.
Cheese, man, you did what you had to do.
What I thought I had to do.
That's Cheese? He was my dawg, yo.
Had much love for me, even then.
I ain't never gonna find another dog like that.
Well, they paying for it now.
Mos def.
For months these assholes show perfect phone discipline, now they're talking murders? Cheese is only a level below Proposition Joe.
All of a sudden, this case has legs.
Homicide.
This is Freamon, Major Case.
Who's the OIC tonight? - Hold on for Norris.
Yo, T.
T man.
I'm shot! I'm shot! Oh, shit.
Shit! They coming back! Motherfucker! Who this? Damn.
Detective Norris.
Ed, this is Lester.
I hear you're catching bodies on the east side.
You hear it? Like, "probable cause" hear it? "I got something concrete" hear it? Or "gas up my head" hear it? "I got fucking time to jaw with you" hear it? - How many bodies you got, Eddie? - "How many you got, Eddie?" Asshole.
You want me to go up to Homicide? - No, I got it.
You're early man on tomorrow.
So go home.
See your kid.
I'm telling you, this kid Berman's a fucking wizard.
I mean, check it out, right? Six reported auto thefts, two of which state, "Not impossible car was borrowed.
" Making four auto thefts, with two unfounded.
And the prizewinner? Four armed robberies, two of which complainants state, "Too dark to ID weapon, "not impossible knife wasn't a comb.
" He might have groomed them to death.
Wine into water.
There he is.
Abbadabba Berman.
The Dr.
Atkins of crime.
Just doing what I'm told.
What a beautiful film.
I couldn't understand a word.
Shit.
Does y'all go to the movies? And you must be the lovely Mrs.
Herc.
How'd you like your movie? OK.
Herc and Carver here, they try to snatch us up every day, like, "Where the shit? Who got the shit?" But they never get nothing.
So y'all go to the movies.
Damn.
All right, then.
See you tomorrow.
Everything OK? On two.
Pick up.
Pick up! - Ed, you got to help me.
I can't, not now.
and a bucket full of worms.
Oh, my God.
So.
So.
Everything good? Fontanelle.
Is it closing up? It won't close for a while.
Good.
Good? Well, I'm just I'm just Les hombres! Les hombres! Les hombres! Wait up, amigo! I ain't sleep since I capped his ass.
Close my eyes, see him laying there all bloody and shit.
Cheese.
Cheese on a platter.
He never talks like that.
Now, why would Because all good things come to those who wait.
Does McNulty know? - I'll raise his ass.
We'll keep our ear to the wire, keep gathering string, no problem.
But if bodies keep falling in the Eastern District, we might have to give up this wiretap.
Now you coming around? Been more than a damn year.
Looks just like his dad, huh? Let me ask you.
When you heard Dee was a suicide, what'd you think? Hey, little fella.
Come here.
Yeah.
Here's the thing, we got a tip.
And the autopsy report backs us up.
Can you put him down, please? Sure.
You know, I'm sorry about your loss.
He seemed like a pretty decent guy, all things considered.
So when I found out about this, I felt like Iowed him.
The last thing I wanted to do was upset you if there was no point to it.
So So If there's anything I can help with or any questions you need answered, or whatever.
Major, how many people are under your command? - 278, sir.
278.
And how many felony arrests did they make last month? Don't bother.
You made 16.
Same time period.
How many handguns you pick up? All shifts, all sectors.
Once again, don't bother.
The answer is none.
None.
You had four bodies last night in how many hours? Shut the fucking book, how many hours? Seven.
Try five.
Tell me about this kid.
I believe his name is James - James Toney.
When's the last time he was arrested? With who? Where's he sling? How about this guy? Or him? Or him? You got four bodies, all within two blocks of each other, and you can't even start to connect the fucking dots.
You got eight hours to get a grip on this mess or you're done.
You hear me? Done.
Marlo? You know I'm with Avon, right? Stringer Bell? Can we talk? I need you to walk back up there and pack up your people.
I'm being a gentleman about it for the moment.
You offer up what you have on this, you start the clock running on yourselves.
The wiretap has to surface in court.
No way around it.
She's right.
We finally got something and you're talking about giving up the wire? Makes no sense.
There's a war going on.
We might have four more bodies tonight.
This is Baltimore, we might have six.
I watched Marvin Taylor from the Eastern get his asshole ripped today because he has no clue.
I don't believe this.
We got top lieutenants talking about murders, and we can't shut up and take notes? We got bodies on the ground.
That's got to matter for something.
If we're at Cheese, we're close to Prop Joe.
If we're close to Joe, we're close to Stringer.
That has to matter.
Look, I was right there with you when we left Stringer on the street and it grinds me, too.
But the fact is we didn't create this unit just to lock up dope dealers.
There's a narcotics unit for that.
We're about the violence.
Have been from the jump.
Barksdale was violent.
But right now, Stringer's quiet and over on the East side, we got bodies.
We got enough from the tap to take a real good shot at Cheese.
Put a murder case together, you may roll someone up at Proposition Joe or Stringer.
As far as bodies go, four's a big number.
OK, then.
As of now, we use the phones to work these murders.
Umm Yo quiero mucho menos pastillas de secuoya en eso y muy masaco un poco.
Si? Gracias.
We bracing up, son.
Gather yourself, nigger.
We got a bead on Dazz.
Be at Neesey's crib in a hour.
Dazz be with Neesey? I thought that was your girl.
Got it.
We'll hook up and go to the battle.
Bring your whistle, in a hour.
One.
Mount up.
Caroline, call QRT with that 20 and stay on the wire.
We're on channel two.
All right.
Tri, what size fries you want? What? Go! - Police! Search Warrant! - Freeze! Hands up! Down on the ground! - Police! - Go, go! Put your hands up! Put your hands up! Hands on your head! OK, Mary Tyler Moore, buck naked.
Open the door, here I come, drop my attache case down, bend her over, give it to her on the ottoman, and she's like"Oh, Rob.
Oh, Rob.
" - Who's Rob? - It's from the show.
Done.
Mary-Kate and Ashley.
I don't want to say.
Just accept whatever pictures are on my mind now.
Anybody else? Yeah, Dozerman's girl, what's her name? She's baking a cake, naked.
White flour splotches all over her fine brown skin.
I come in, in a chef's hat, nothing else on, Johnson out to here and say "That's no way to stir a batter.
Here, let me try to get" Hey, Doze.
What's up? - Done, now the guy.
This is a hard one for anybody to understand.
I mean, it's got nothing to do with sex.
It's about sympathy.
It's about giving a guy a break.
Yeah, OK.
Gus Triandos.
Who's Gus Triandos? A catcher with the Orioles back in the day.
Me and my brother had his card.
Sorry-looking motherfucker, man.
I mean, he looked like this little kid who got left at a bus station by his parents.
You know why? Because he had to catch Hoyt Wilhelm's knuckleball.
Five fucking years.
The worst gig in baseball.
It was like trying to catch a greased pig with wings.
I mean, he even told a reporter once, "Wilhelm nearly ruined me.
" Gus Triandos.
Big, slow guy.
Good choice.
Go ahead, say it.
I know you want to say it.
What? There's nothing to say.
Nothing? - You put a lot of thought into it.
It's cool.
OK.
OK.
Tonight, three things.
Number one.
Keep your incident numbers sequential or it's gonna be a stone mess tomorrow.
Number two.
We'll be photographing evidence at the scene.
That means don't bag anything until you get the shot off.
And number three, don't embarrass yourselves.
Make sure your camera's loaded with film.
OK, mount up.
So Cheese, who's your dawg? You my dawg.
I just want to know who's your dawg.
Dawg.
What's this, some psychology? Yeah, OK.
Yo, please stop, stop.
I'll tell you everything I know.
Come on, Cheese.
Who's your dawg? Hell, no.
Hell, you ain't laying no bodies on me, man.
Lawyer time.
"He was my dawg, man.
"I ain't sleep since I capped his ass.
"Looking up at me all bloody and shit.
"He had much love for me, even then.
"I ain't never gonna find another.
" Oh Man, y'all some cold-ass motherfuckers, man.
We got you on tape.
So what happened, Cheese? I thought he punked me, all right? So I did what I had to do.
Which was? Lit him up.
Well, he's talking anyway.
Well, what's done is done.
But maybe we can help you on this.
How? You gonna bring him back? No, on the consequences.
Help us help you.
What? - Maybe we can trade up.
Trade up for what, man? For this? - What the fuck - Proposition Joe.
You give us Prop Joe and maybe we look at this whole thing with Dawg differently.
Now, why would I be talking about Prop Joe behind You know what, man? I don't even know no Prop Joe.
OK.
Dawg.
Which one of these is he? Where's that body? Where I left it, most likely.
Warehouse on the East Side.
And he still there? Far as I know.
Unless the SPCA come around.
What? Looks like they broke him.
I got to say, you really showed me something on this.
What can I possibly add to that? Except, I owe you one, Cedric.
You ever have one of those "have your cake and eat it, too" days? I believe this could be my first.
Tell me something good.
We're charging him.
Improper disposal of an animal.
Discharging a firearm in city limits.
Animal cruelty, if you want to run wild with it.
Go ahead, call me a cocksucker.
You know you wanna.
Excuse me? You know, I actually looked up the stats on Gus Triandos.
Power hitter, right? Fuck the both of you.
Later, dawg.
Kiss my ass.
Night, Bunk.
Night.
Funny day.
I'm the new departmental pet for shutting down a drug war.
But I blew my wire for a dead terrier.
You remember how you said you hoped today would be your first "have your cake and eat it, too" day? What about it? Um OK, gents.
You see the brake lights pump twice, you know we got a clean hand-to-hand.
So I get in this morning and I'm looking at three phone messages from Buddy Ferraro over at DPW.
All assuring me that I'll have 20 radio cars back in service at the end of the week.
Buddy and my old man go way back.
Made their first Communion together at St Leo's.
So, what else do you need? And you didn't go to the Mayor with it? Did you get your cars? Did anyone get fucked over it? Or did your job just get a little easier? I got 70 cops retiring at the end of the year that I know of, and no money for academy class.
The mayor fucked you, 'cause I know that money was in the budget.
The mayor delayed it till next summer.
I mean less troops, less salary, less bennies.
I mean, even a six-month delay saves the city two, three million.
Let me talk to some people.
Yeah? - Major Colvin? - Yeah.
This is the Com Center.
I'm sorry to inform you of this, sir, but we have an officer down in your district.
Which hospital? I just got the lease, so Fucking solo cars.
I should have teamed him.
I fucked up.
Dead-ass motherfucker's dead.
If we catch up to him, he don't come in alive.
Right? Nicked jugular, shattered jaw.
He'll live.
Give me one of those.
I just got back from shock trauma.
You guys saved his ass, getting him down as fast as you did.
So who we got for a suspect? Number one male, white T-shirt, baggy jeans, tennis shoes.
In the wind, but we're locking it down out there.
So what's this I hear about the gun? Doze tried to return fire, he dropped his piece.
Some fuck picks it up and books.
I mean, I can't believe this shit.
I'll take it.
No.
No, no, no.
It'll be nicer when I fix the place up.
Cedric.
I don't care.
No, tell him I'm cooked.
I just got done at the hospital, I'm all in.
He asked if you could talk to the reporters.
He doesn't want me talking to reporters.
That would truly be unwise.
All right, all right, I'll tell him.
All right.
Bunny, you look hellacious.
You got any coffee going in there? You know what I was thinking? That tonight's a good night.
Why? Because my shot cop didn't die.
Then it hit me.
This is what makes a good night on my watch.
Absence of a negative.
It was a good night.
Here's the thing.
Six months from now, I'm gone.
I put in my 30 and the only thing that'll be left of me on that job is an 8 by 11 framed picture in the Western hallway.
But you know what? The shit out there.
The city is worse than when I first came on.
So what does that say about me? About my life? Come on, man.
You're talking about drugs.
That's a force of nature, that's sweeping leaves on a windy day, whoever the hell you are.
You fought the good fight.
Not a call since we gave it up to Cheese.
What did you expect? Oh.
Attention.
Be seated.
Regarding Officer Dozerman, his condition has been upgraded to "guarded".
I'm told he can receive visits, and he's been moved to a recovery unit.
As of this tour, all hand-to-hand undercover buys of CDS are suspended in the Western District.
You're kidding me.
Somewheres back in the dawn of time this district had itself a civic dilemma of epic proportion.
The city council had just passed a law that forbid alcoholic consumption in public places, on the streets and on the corners.
But the corner is, and it was, and it always will be the poor man's lounge.
It's where a man wants to be on a hot summer's night.
It's cheaper than a bar, catch a nice breeze, you watch the girls go by.
But the law is the law.
And the Western cops rolling by, what were they gonna do? If they arrested every dude out there for tipping back a High Life, there'd be no other time for any other kind of police work.
And if they looked the other way? They'd open themselves to all kinds of flaunting all kinds of disrespect.
Now, this is before my time when it happened, but somewhere back in the '50s or '60s, there was a small moment of goddamn genius by some nameless smokehound who comes out the Cut Rate one day, and on his way to the corner, he slips that just-bought pint of elderberry into a paper bag.
A great moment of civic compromise.
That small wrinkled-ass paper bag allowed the corner boys to have their drink in peace, and it gave us permission to go and do police work.
The kind of police work that's actually worth the effort.
That's worth actuallytaking a bullet for.
Dozerman, he got shot last night trying to buy three vials.
Three! There's never been a paper bag for drugs until now.
If we ain't doing hand-to-hands, then what the fuck? And the shit with the bag? What the fuck is that?
I gotta hit the head.
I can't take this shit, Bunny.
Yeah.
It'll pass.
They're just riding you now.
Next week it's somebody new.
They can't take away your EOD, Marvin.
The worst they can do is bust you back to lieutenant.
I don't even wanna think about the worst these motherfuckers can do.
You don't either.
You're still not connecting the dots, Marvin.
Have a look.
Hoffman and Holbrook, sir.
Very good.
But you had a body dropped there last week and this is what the fuck it looked like yesterday.
Bond and Preston, for the record.
Ashland and Wolfe.
Chase and Durham.
Sir, I deployed my resources per your instructions.
We've beefed up foot patrols we have our plain-clothes squads on 12-hour shifts.
And the corners stay full? - They move, sir.
Every day.
They're gonna sell their drugs somewhere.
Major Taylor, I look at your numbers, I see the intel reports, the photos.
It all tells me that you lack a fucking clue.
If you'll permit me.
Is your Deputy Major present? - Yes, sir.
You now command the Eastern District.
Major Taylor, you are relieved.
Take the podium.
Anyone else having trouble with the writing on the wall? Dismissed.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole And I'm like, "Nigger, if you want to sell me a new car, "you better really sell it to me, "cos otherwise, I'm sitting back and I'm watching.
" What you want with a new ride for? Ain't like you can't get a new car anywhere you want any time, in this whole city.
I'm just saying.
Saying what? - In case.
In case what? In case I ever wanna buy a new car.
Damn, is that too much to ask for? - Girl, you crazy.
Shit, shit, get down, get down.
Yeah, they feeling it now.
They protecting the fuck out of it too.
You see what you wanted? Yeah, man, but they got the whole second floor boarded up.
Got a little porch around back, couple of the boys there now smoking menthols.
So we slide up from the back? - That barred up too.
No way through the front? Not now.
But come tomorrow morning, they gonna scale back down to a three-man skeleton crew, you feel me? Not sure I like this.
Why we got to keep hitting up the Barksdale people? Ain't like this whole motherfucking city ain't got stashes all over it.
True that.
So why? - Because.
Because? Indeed.
So that's a cop-shooter? Yeah, not much to him.
But he did that job on the Dozerman kid last week.
Gave it up in a full statement.
Before or after you knocked the shit out of him? "Injuries were sustained while patrol officers "were effecting pursuit and arrest of aforementioned suspects.
" - He was caught East Side, right? - Yeah.
But the wagon made a stop at the Western District for an unscheduled tune-up.
It's dark on that back lot.
Western boys mistook him for a piata.
So what do you think? I think this is a tragic motherfucking miscarriage of justice.
I think it deserves a special grand jury, and if not, the President should appoint an independent prosecutor.
Oh, no, actually, I think, Kofi Bryant and the United fucking Nations should get involved.
It's a murder, Bunk.
The word from upstairs is we're supposed to be having less murders, not more.
This is Anne Arundel County.
Why should they care? Why should you? Hey, Bunk.
Hey, how's it going? Deputy asks, have we recovered Dozerman's service weapon? No, sir.
The kid said he sold it on the street.
Gave only the street name of the buyer.
A certain Peanut, whereabouts unknown.
They want that gun back.
Sir? They don't want a departmental weapon on the street.
You know, as a principle.
Look, the great white deputy has spoken.
This case is not done until that gun comes home.
Don't get up.
One of the most heavily armed cities in the gun-loving world.
Why should those ignorant motherfuckers care about one goddamn semi-auto, more or less? What'd you bring me downtown in this shit for, man? Police don't get wet.
Talk to me, big man.
Thought you should know, my boy, Cheese, went into the box with a couple of police.
He stood tall? - No doubt.
Kept his mouth shut and waited them out.
The way it turned out, they the ones that fucked up.
How come? Police let it slip Cheese played in on some talkies.
Tried to pin a hit on him.
Said they heard it all over.
Who got hit? - A dog.
What kind of dog? - Kind mistake your leg for pussy.
So, they had phones tapped? Don't matter to me none if they did.
Me and the people I keep close, we don't talk on the phone line.
You talk on the phone, String? So we good, then.
What we know is, they still looking hard at us.
You wanna know what kills more police than bullets and liquor? Boredom.
They just can't handle that shit.
You keep it boring, String.
You keep it dead fucking boring.
You're serious? I am.
What's the closest school to here? - Stuart Hill Elementary.
That's at least eight blocks.
Three sevens.
Three sevens? Five eights.
Bullshit, let's see it.
Five eights.
Read 'em and weep.
You're cheating.
I just can't catch your ass is all.
It's just luck, Tony.
It's just luck.
You called my desk looking for me? - Yes, I did.
Come on in.
Grab a chair.
But watch your wallet if you do.
Make it quick, Tommy.
The new city editor wants a 40-inch weekender on liquor board reform.
They're gonna reform the liquor board? - Yeah, with a hand grenade.
So what's on your mind? - We're off the record? There's gonna be no academy class of police cadets this year.
Mayor's orders.
Homicide rate's climbing, felonies are up, we got patrol vacancies out the ass.
Even more coming at the year-end retirements.
And this is coming from His Honor? To what end? Keep some money.
Money's in the budget but even a six-month delay in hiring saves a couple million.
You think there's some paper, something the Mayor signed? No, the personnel office will confirm that the class is delayed until next year.
You get that much, you can come back to me for a couple of quotes.
You want in on this? - No indeed.
I love my Mayor.
Councilman, thank you.
Stirring up some shit? - Just a little bit.
For the good of our fair city by the bay.
Three twos.
Housing authority has this slated for demolition, right? But no money to do it yet.
Boss, you sure it's a good idea not to tell anybody about this downtown? Ignorance is bliss, Lieutenant.
Anyone ever tell you that? Once, but I beat the dog-piss out of the guy with a night stick.
Anybody seen McNulty? Catch him up when he posts.
New target.
Kintel Williamson, goes by Prince K.
Has a string of corners from Park Circle to Woodland Avenue.
And he's dropping bodies too.
Three in the last four months.
Or so say our friends in the Northwestern District.
So we're off Proposition Joe's people? We're gonna ship all the mid-level arrests downtown to CID.
Let narcotics work up those prosecutions.
After that, we're on to new business.
He don't look like much.
He's dropping bodies.
With everybody pressed to bring the murder rate down, that's the new mandate for this unit.
Bell has bodies on him too.
Not lately.
And Prop Joe hasn't made much noise either.
They're still running product.
Still got kids banging out there.
And now, cos we blew a wire over a fucking dog we have to let them just walk on, go about their shit like we were never anything to take seriously in the first place? I want an investigative strategy mapped up by week's end.
Well, McNulty's here in spirit anyway.
What? Right there.
This will work too.
There's a couple occupied in the 200-block and that one over there.
But otherwise we're good.
Good shit, right? Let's go.
Commissioner Burrell, please.
Who's calling? - It's Councilman Carcetti.
Hold, please.
Hello.
Erv, I'm giving you a heads up.
You'll get a call from a reporter about the academy class.
What the fuck? Is this a joke? - Calm down, just "no comment" the fucker.
You tell me my name will be nowhere near this - and then send a reporter my way? - Exactly.
Then you call the Mayor and you tell him you got a reporter nosing around about the academy class.
Tell him you have no idea how it leaked.
I knew this shit'd come back to me.
You're covered on this.
God damn it, you can't hang me out there like this with the Mayor.
My ass is flapping in the breeze - You want that class, Erv? - You gotta trust me.
Shit.
How you even find me? - Ran into Lucas.
Don't even call his name.
Nigger still owes me money.
He just told me how to find you, that's all.
He tell you how I'm doing? Yeah.
I know what you're thinking.
You ain't looking all that yourself.
You look just fine, girl.
Just trying to find your sister, that's all.
She ain't for you no more.
She ain't for none of our kind.
Gone out County way.
Picked herself up County clothes, County car County nose to look down on all us city niggers with.
She a teacher.
Where at? - Don't be rushing me, motherfucker.
I know you looking to tip on out of here, get your aftershave on, get yourself correct.
She teach speech.
Make it so every nigger sound like Condoleezza.
Up Ida B Wells.
Excuse me, sir.
Have you seen this little girl? This my baby.
Can you just take that picture with you? Thank you so much.
God bless.
Have you seen this little girl? - You have to back up.
My little girl.
She's only four.
I ain't seen your little girl.
Back up.
Please, just take a look at her! - I ain't seen your girl How do? - Let's go.
Where it at, man? Back there.
So, what up, man, you don't value my time? - Nigger, please.
Hand me that screw gun and calm the fuck down.
Go! Go! Clear! Yo, Tosha, go! - Dante, go, I got your back.
Go, Dante.
I got you, baby.
I got you.
Go! Go! Go, Dante, go! Yo, y'all ready? Let's bang out.
Go, go, go! Go! Come on, Kimmy, get in the car.
Get in the car, man.
Your department leaks like a fucking sieve.
It could be someone over here at the Hall.
Someone on your staff.
Someone on the Council.
It doesn't matter now.
We got to spin it as best we can, so we need you to step up and take this one for the team, Erv.
Me? Tell the newspaper the academy class has been delayed for some reason.
Lack of recruits, problems in your personnel division.
Keep it in your shop.
After which, the Mayor steps in, announces we'll have a class in January come hell or high water.
Do it like that, it's a one-day story.
Mr.
Mayor, this was a budget question.
I was directed to delay that class.
Yeah, you took the hit then and you're taking the hit now.
And I thank you for both, Commissioner.
And that's just the ones with West Side addresses.
You got to narrow that shit down.
Find some way to work with all them Peanuts.
Motherfucker, do I look like George Washington Carver? Shit.
Cocksuckers got me chasing one gun through a city full of 'em.
Homicide.
Two down, Pall Mall and Pimlico.
Pall Mall and Pimlico.
Got it.
Two down in the street.
Ray Cole's up.
Cole is in court today and I caught that cutting in Cherry Hill last night.
Don't look at me.
I'm in the haystacks, looking for Dozerman's prodigal gun.
You gonna make me go back-to-back as a primary? That's some cold shit, Bunk.
Agg assault with a two-by-four? I don't think so.
Put that with the Part Two's.
This one too.
Assault by pointing.
If you don't use a handgun, you don't get credit for waving it, right? Larceny here.
Hump wrote this up as a daytime B and E? Fuck this.
Do it clean.
Don't massage anything, don't sex anything down.
We give 'em the fuckin' truth.
What about COMSTAT, boss? They'll rip you.
There's five months to my 30, right? Fuck 'em if they can't take a joke.
The major no doubt has some explanation, some excuse, if you will, for a weekly felony tabulation that's going in the opposite direction - from the other eight districts.
I have none, sir.
You are content with this? No, Deputy, I'm unhappy.
I wish we were making more of an impact.
But doing what we're doing it's clear that's not the case.
Major Colvin, I am under the impression crime is down in the Western.
Perhaps you misfigured your felony stats this week.
No, sir.
We were very accurate.
Sometimes the gods are uncooperative.
Uncooperative? This is a cooperative effort, a cooperative department.
Why, in the Eastern District, Lieutenant Daniels exemplified this new spirit just the other day.
Because of that, we got two fresh homicides in the black and a lot less bodies on the streets had that drug war been allowed to drag on Mayor has me taking the hit in public for the late academy class.
You're kidding me.
Where's the fucking loyalty, I ask you? but in the Western, what do I get from a veteran commander? You're having a laugh, aren't you, Bunny? You got the real stats and projections somewhere else.
Someone's just outside with them, right? A stripper, maybe? That would be nice.
She comes in, flashes a little tit, gives us a whiff of muff and delivers my fucking stat sheets with a reduction that matches what we promised the Mayor.
That would be beautiful.
That would be crme fucking brle.
But what I got instead is some half-assed "I wish we were doing better" platitude that's meant to fool maybe a six-year-old girl into thinking you're doing your job.
Well, she's left the room, Major Colvin.
She's out there right now asking the stripper if she can have her job when she grows up because she sure as shit doesn't want yours! You know why? Because there isn't gonna be a Western District in 20 years if this shit keeps up.
I don't care how many years you have on this job.
If the felony rate doesn't fall, you most certainly will.
The gods are fucking you, you find a way to fuck them back.
It's Baltimore, gentlemen.
The gods will not save you.
You on my team.
No, you with me.
I ain't on nobody's team.
I'm not playing that Come on.
We're on the same team.
Give me that.
She look like a player? Bystander? Come on, let's go.
Right in the middle of it all, if she was.
Over here.
You guys! I'm comin' out! - Yo, my turn to be Omar.
No.
Give it to me.
Give it to me.
Give me.
I'm telling you, I was there.
White folks was on the stoop by the 909 Club and Apex just standing over his ass pumping more holes in the boy than a motherfucker need.
Shit, I ain't lying.
Soon as that motherfucking nine stopped talking, white folks look up at Apex, say, "Bitch, that the best you got?" Man, I'm just saying, a boy got that much white blood, he got to be a punk.
You want me, boss? - Your numbers are way down, Fruit.
Way down.
Man, it's Barksdale's people.
They clipping the dope fiends coming up Fremont.
You know, when I ran a shop and my numbers dropped, I damn sure did something about it.
Yeah, I hear that.
I just want 'em moved.
Take the young 'uns with you, give 'em a workout.
All right.
So, Lieutenant, you got an "attaboy" from the Deputy today, huh? It cost me my wiretap, though.
Still, it's good work over in the Eastern.
Knocking down a drug war.
He's gonna do the same thing for me up on Park Heights.
I got this Kintel Williamson character who needs some fixing.
Rawls promised me Daniels and his unit for about a month or so.
You're getting quite the rep there, kiddo.
So, Stan, what's your plan for the Southeast? How you gonna give Rawls his numbers? I don't know.
Flex squads on the corners, foot patrols in the Perkins Homes, overtime out the ass.
And if that don't work, cheat on the stats.
So what say you? Shit, me? I'm going to 12-hour shifts on the weekend, man.
What about you, Bunny? Uh, I don't know.
I thought I might legalize drugs.
So they hit the goddamn alley.
And we on them.
That cocksmoking motherfucker with the big-bitch gun? - We was running hard on his ass, but - I think I hit him.
Nigger, you ain't hit nobody.
I might've hit him.
Yo, String, we hit the one girl.
But after that, man, I ain't seen nobody catch no lead, man.
Except for Tank.
Yeah, Tank gone.
The other broad dropped him.
So I guess we even now.
So you get one, right? - Yeah.
That's good.
That's like a 40-degree day.
Ain't nobody got nothing to say about a 40-degree day.
barbecuing on that motherfucker.
Go down to 20, niggers get they bitch on.
Get they blood complaining.
But 40? Nobody give a fuck about 40.
Nobody remember 40, and y'all niggers is giving me way too many 40-degree days.
What the fuck? Yeah.
Now, we gonna cover that bitch's funeral, her fucking wake, we gonna be all over that motherfucker, till the bitch hit the ground.
And if the faggot roll up to pay his respects we're gonna be on that motherfucker.
Who the fuck you talking to, man? - It's Donette, String.
She been calling.
No, put the phone down.
Are you all feeling me on this? Yeah.
He show up, we on him like a motherfucking Like a 40-degree day.
So, overall, felonies are down.
But murders are still up.
What's our next move? Let me bump overtime and court pay for homicide and district ops.
Cases go into the green before they go into the black.
Done.
And if we could get some help at the courthouse, it would go a long way.
If you're trying to dig your way out of this, don't make me your shovel.
We bring you casework that goes nowhere.
The cases are thin.
Most wouldn't make it past a prelim in the court of a freshman judge.
Maybe if your personnel weren't so concerned for their conviction rate, - they'd chance a whodunnit or two.
For Christ's sake Jesus, at least pretend you're on the same side.
Stephen, you and I are both going to be counting votes this time next year.
Do something to help our sorry asses.
And Erv, if you want to do more than just finish out Walker's term, show me something more than just a pass of the buck.
I don't think any of us wants to have to get a real job.
Mr.
Mayor.
All right.
I'll see you both in here on this next week.
Thank you, sir.
They're like children.
Demper's always been a hack.
But he's an elected hack, so we're stuck with him.
But Burrell, though.
You're vulnerable on crime, Clarence.
You need to set some deadwood adrift.
Burrell's got friends.
The ministers? Well, he might be their man, but so are you.
You fire Burrell, you get some new blood in here, the crime rate drops, huh? The ministers will live with it.
So you're tough on deadwood, huh? In the new 11th district too, I hear.
Mr.
Mayor, it's time for Eunetta to go.
She's had her time.
There are better people out there for the Council.
She's on the team, Odell.
Just like my police commissioner.
I value loyalty.
Don't you? Bunky Bunk, where's my Bunk? Cole was up, not you.
You're on Dozerman's gun, remember? Cole was at the courthouse.
Sue me.
Rawls and Foerster have crawled into my backside, and they'll stay there until you find Dozerman's gun.
Now, I would like it very much if I could unclench my ample ass cheeks, if you don't mind, and rid myself of that discomfort.
Jay, I just caught one that pushed its way all the way to the top of my stack.
A victim, Jay.
On the real side.
Do tell.
Second body in a double.
Girl in her 20s, caught in a firefight.
Takes one in the dome.
But she's still dead in a zip code that does not fucking matter.
And you still owe me a departmental issue nine.
Find the fucking gun, Bunk.
Fuck me.
Kintel Williamson, who the fuck? - He has corners in Park Heights.
But Jesus, who doesn't? So all day we're calling you, Jimmy, wondering where you're at.
Kima, maybe you can enlighten us.
Don't look at me.
My running buddy don't even tell me where he's off to these days.
I was at the library.
Bullshit.
I was at the library at MCI Jessup.
D'Angelo Barksdale was not a suicide.
The ME tell you that? - He didn't need to.
The physical evidence didn't match up.
Look, I don't like coming up off of Stringer or Prop Joe any more than you do, but, McNulty, this shit is kind of weak.
Cedric is under a lot of pressure to use this unit to get the murder rate down, so for now, Stringer Bell's jacket belongs in narcotics.
Man took you off a boat, Jimmy.
He want to peel his unit off, his unit, Jimmy, and go after the target of his choice, baby, it's his call.
Lester, I thought you were all about the best case possible.
When it's there, I am.
Yo, I need y'all to hear this, man.
It was my fault.
You hear me? I'm sorry, yo.
That don't do nothing for me.
How come they know you're police when they hook up with you and they know you're police when they move in, and they know you're police when they decide to start a family with you, and all that shit is just fine until one day it ain't.
One day it's, "You should have a regular job.
"You need to be home at five o'clock.
" - "You need to call more.
" - I'm saying.
"You need to stop fucking waitresses.
" I wanna come down here tomorrow to Western.
See what's what since those Towers came down.
We're supposed to start on Kintel tomorrow.
Oh, fuck that chump.
He can wait a day or two.
Yeah, OK.
What the fuck.
When you were humping a radio car in the Western, was this your hole? Yeah.
Here and down on Winchester, under the bridge.
Bet there were a lot of nights you didn't go home to the missus.
Don't tell me I'm the same kind of asshole.
Pucker up, girlfriend.
Jesus! I'm turning into McNulty.
Hey.
I'm getting ready to go now.
No, Mee-maw, you know I can't.
Times like these, honey, you have to shine.
In your face, in your clothes, and in your pocket.
Now, go on.
Make sure you get something to eat.
Go on, now.
You know 'em? - Not a clue.
The crew on that corner looks familiar.
A couple of old faces.
Not many.
You go away for a year and the whole world changes up.
Quiet, though.
Barksdale loses the Towers and he's able to stretch out without bodies falling? I wonder what the Western guys have been seeing lately.
Yeah? - Hey, Jay.
You have a minute? Yeah.
What the fuck happened? - He just collapsed.
When? How is he? Shit.
You're gonna let me know, right? OK, yeah.
Thanks.
You know Ray Cole? - Homicide, right? Collapsed in the gym at the Central District this morning.
On a fucking StairMaster.
Well, how is he? A StairMaster.
Hey, check it out.
Where they at? - I don't know.
Shit! Go! Go! Look out, man! Break it.
Break it, motherfuckers.
Man said break.
Come on.
I was working that bitch.
Yeah, shorty, you hard.
Go.
We out of here.
"The Commissioner acknowledged that money had been budgeted "for the academy class, "but said the department was awaiting approval "of a federal training and education grant "before scheduling the program.
" Burrell can talk some shit, can't he? Uh-oh.
Downtown in the house.
Hey, Kima baby.
Hey, Ellis.
Herc.
To what do we owe the pleasure? Cruising your district, seeing what's up since the Towers fell.
We see Barksdale crews on a few corners, but no one seems to be beefing with them.
What's up with all this brotherhood? We keep the lid on tight.
They know we're not their friends and they damn well know that we'll take it to them if they don't behave.
What do your CIs tell you? Fuck CIs.
We don't need no stinking CIs.
We tune 'em up, we beat 'em down, we lock 'em up.
It's the Western District way.
Sergeant, you're wanted in roll call for a supervisor's meeting.
Gotta go.
Remember what I told you? Police is only as good as his informants.
We ain't downtown no more.
We're in the trenches here.
You want information, you go get your own CI and you shoot the shit.
You're late, Sergeant.
I had a couple of downtown detectives in my shop.
They were confused and required assistance, sir.
Well, I'll catch you up.
The new strategic plan for the district is to move all street-level trafficking to these three areas.
We want to push it.
Push it, boss? If they don't go easy, then they go hard.
But we let these knuckleheads know that if they move to these areas, away from the residential streets, away from commercial areas, away from schools, if they take that shit down the road they can go about their business without any interference from us.
It's going to be hands-off in the Western District - for the foreseeable future.
Bullshit, man.
No fucking way.
Wait.
You want us to give them a free pass? How are we gonna look them in the eye? They'll shit all over us, tell their kids to shit all over us.
Hey, the Major wasn't finished.
You got to take the long view here.
Once Once they're all comfortable, once they're all rounded up, once they've been down there a bit and they're used to putting their feet up and playing with the remote, then we move.
Then we go back and we do police work.
Look at it this way, gentlemen.
Would you rather shoot at fish in the ocean, or would you rather gather them up in a few small barrels and start emptying your clips then? And you still get to kick the shit out of all the mopes that don't move off our corners.
So it ain't all bad.
Slow up, girl.
Come on, now.
So this your ride? - It's nice.
I suppose you got a Lex.
Nah, girl.
Got a bus pass.
You out the game, then? - Yeah.
Doing a little landscaping right now but trying to figure things out.
So what's your boy's name? - Allen.
After Iverson? - After his daddy.
What? I'm trying to picture you mowing a lawn.
Yeah, I don't be wearing this suit.
You look good in it, still.
You look good too.
You know, they bought a lot of folks out with early retirement in Parks and Rec.
I could maybe hook you up with someone to talk to.
A man at my church is helping the city fill a lot of those jobs.
That would be Thank you.
Write your number there.
He'll call you.
I gotta go.
It was good seeing you.
Grace.
Looking at you What? Hurts.
You shouldn't look, then.
A food blast will take your mind off it.
I'd rather my mind on it, Bubs.
I swear, I'm sick of all of this, man.
Wondering when I got so old.
Some more mac and cheese - Hey, Bubs.
Kima.
Hey, Bub.
McNutty, man.
My mainest man.
You ready to put some work in? - Born ready.
Snitching? Fuck that, Bubs.
Hey, hey.
Nah, man.
Better than lifting 500-pound radiators.
I'm up for these two, Johnny.
That's easy money, man.
Come on, let's grab a burger.
You mind if I bang out of here early? I ain't right with this Cole thing.
There's a detectives' wake at Kavanagh's tonight.
You gonna come? I barely knew the guy.
Y'all laying him out at the bar, huh? Tradition.
Tomorrow night, he goes to the funeral home for family.
Tonight, Ray drinks with the boys.
Come on, Bubs.
We ain't got all day.
He's up for re-election and he's never had one of his goo-goo bills pass the committee.
So, he's got one for all-day kindergarten.
I mean who's gonna argue with more kindergarten? I mean, this guy has got a bill which is the legislative equivalent of kissing a baby.
So he goes to his chairman, pleads his case and says "This don't go through, I'm going to be back in that hardware store, mixing paint.
" The chairman takes pity and agrees.
He gets the bill to the floor.
But the house speaker, he hates this bill.
So, it gets loved to death, you know.
Slaps on an amendment for another $150 million in costs, subsidies, handouts, and the bill goes down in flames, 122 to ten.
The delegate, he can smell those paint cans.
And the chairman says, "Hey, sorry, brother.
"I fought like a tiger for that bill.
" - With friends like that - You want friends? In this racket? Get a dog.
What? - Look, we're real busy.
I need to talk to him.
I gave him the message.
Look, just tell him it's Donette.
You're sure he knows you? Yeah, he know who the fuck I am.
Yo, String, she say - Not now.
Look, he say not now.
I gotta go.
Marlo? It's a problem, String.
Club soda and lime.
You'll never get there that way.
Get where? Excuse me.
How the hell was I to know the Mayor was gonna put the screws to you? You read the paper? I look like shit.
Hey, you got your class.
And probably scored points with Royce out of sheer loyalty, right? We are police.
So no lies between us.
He wasn't the greatest detective, and he wasn't the worst.
He put down some good cases and he dogged a few bad ones.
But the motherfucker had his moments.
Yes, he fucking did.
You remember the Mississippi extradition? The arson murders? - Right.
He brought that case home.
And the triple at the after-hours over on Hudson Street, that was Ray Cole at his best.
And Fayette Street in '93, the drug wars.
He took a lot of hot corners and cooled them.
Yes, indeed.
He won as much as he lost.
Much as any of us.
Oh, for Christ's sake, Hugh, play the fucking song, already.
Did he piss off a wife or three? No fucking doubt.
I think the last one actually kind of got used to him, thank God.
Did he say the wrong shit now and then? Did he bust balls and cheat on his taxes and forget to call his mother and fuck the wrong broad for the wrong fucking reason every now and then? Who fucking doesn't? Christ! Was he as full of shit as every other sad-sack motherfucker wearing a badge of Baltimore City Police? Abso-fucking-lutely.
His shit was as weak as ours, no question.
But Ray Cole stood with us, all of us, in Baltimore, working, sharing a dark corner of the American experiment.
He was called.
He served.
He is counted.
Old King Cole.
Old King Cole! The Cadillac stood by the house And the Yanks, they were within And the tinker boys they hissed advice Hot-wire her with a pin Well, we turned and shook as we had a look In the room where the dead men lay So big Jim Dwyer made his last trip To the shore where his father's laid we had our first taste of whisky There was uncles giving lectures on ancient Irish history The men all started telling jokes And the women they got frisky By five o'clock in the evening every bastard there was piskey Fare thee well going away, there's nothing left to say Farewell to New York City, boys, to Boston and PA He took them out with a well-aimed clout, he was often heard to say I'm a free-born man of the USA I'm sorry, but I gotta get these guys home.
But all things considered, I think they did pretty well.
They were great.
And you were great, really, Jen.
Besides, I think they got all the family shots they need.
So, you'll be a while, though, huh? - Mm-hm.
Gotta work the crowd, you know.
Make them think I'm worthy of their faith.
You are.
Thank you.
Most of the time.
Bitch.
Not too late if you can help it, OK? Jimmy.
Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy.
Shit is fucked.
You fuckin' wake up like any other day.
You fuckin' eat and think about bills and dry-cleaning and shit and fucking vacation and your fuckin' retirement plan, and what? Like that.
Like that.
He checked outta here with you still owing him a clearance on that Omar thing.
I know, I know.
I fucking know.
Like that.
On a fucking StairMaster.
On a fucking StairMaster.
Wake up and die right, you cunts.
What's going on, man? That whip is pretty.
I gotta get me one of them joints one day.
Shit, yeah.

And not only do we hear and appreciate your input, but we are fully committed to giving 110% in our efforts to fight this war against drugs and take back your streets.
But we can't do it alone.
So when you see illegal activity, we need you to pick up the phone - and call it in so that we can get - Bullshit! Please hold your questions.
I near wore out my phone dialing 685 DRUG, and for what? Those boys is back on the corner the next damn day! The fact remains, the police department can't do it alone.
We need your cooperation.
My cousin Willy Gant cooperated.
He went downtown and testified.
He deader than 2Pac today.
Look, I know the problem seems insurmountable, but we are making progress.
Take a look at this chart - Nah, nah, uh-uh-uh.
I have the microphone, ma'am.
Let the woman speak.
My kids, they can't play outside no more.
Some nights, when we hear these pops, - we got to sleep under our beds.
Right on.
I come home from work, I can't even get up my front steps - cos they occupied by the drug dealers.
You tell him! Is that in that picture you got up there? I don't see that no way.
I'm Major Colvin.
I apologize for giving you the wrong impression tonight.
We mean no disrespect.
I know what's going on in your neighborhoods.
I see it every day.
Ma'am, it pains me that you cannot enter your own front door in safety and with dignity.
The truth is I can't promise you it's gonna get any better.
We can't lock up the thousands on the corners.
There'd be no place to put them if we could.
We show you charts and statistics like they mean something.
But you're going back to your homes tonight, we're gonna be in our patrol cars and them boys still gonna be out there on them corners, deep in the game.
This here is the world we got, people.
And it's about time all of us had the good sense to at least admit that much.
So, what's the answer? Well, I'm not sure.
But whatever it is, it can't be a lie.
First time I heard a cop say that.
It's all yours, Sergeant.
Come on.
As I was pointing out Who gave him a can of gasoline and told him to put out the fire? - We are making progress - Tommy Carcetti.
Marla Daniels.
I'm running for - Gonna take a run at Eunetta Perkins.
I know who you are.
I've seen you with Delegate Watkins a couple of times already.
Well, this is not your home district.
What brings you to the West Side? I got the Public Safety Subcommittee so here I am.
Anyway, good luck with Eunetta.
And welcome to the noble calling of public service.
Further west in your neighborhoods, the numbers of crimes against merchants are way, way down.
We're making significant - What the hell was that? - I'm tired of the bullshit.
Tired make you lose your mind? When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole So, what do you need from Bubs? I mean, exactly? The lay of the land, who has what corners now that the Towers are down.
We wanna know what happened to the Barksdale people, especially.
And this pay how much? Let's treat it like a real job.
Say five an hour.
30 on a day, max.
That's less than minimum wage.
But there's no withholding, Bubs.
It's tax free.
All right.
It feels good to be out here.
I mean, gainfully employed.
Thought your boy was coming too.
Johnny? He don't think much of this here with y'all.
Besides, he happens to be one of the laziest white boys to ever shit between two shoes.
I've been working since I was a kid.
Yeah? What's your rsum like, Bubs? - Just curious.
Well, I ain't claiming no payroll jobs, Kima.
It's been a while since I punched a clock.
When was that? Long time ago.
Before I had a sheet.
Shit, I wasI was still clean.
I got one of those stock boy jobs, one of those "cheapest guys in town" stores.
Unloading appliances taking air-conditioners and shit out to the customers' cars.
Like that.
"How many you want?" What happened? I put a clock radio in the trash can one day, trying to be cute, got caught.
I didn't even need a clock radio.
See, that's me, though.
Born fuck-up.
All right, you know what? $5 an hour, $30 on the day.
That'll work.
Right? Y'all do that bad stuff She like it rammed up Ropes and handcuffs What? Touch me I'm 'bout to throw some game They both one and the same Cupid's the one to blame Say it Make love to me I'm 'bout to shed some light Cos each and every night You gotta do it right What? Touch me And this here is your "get out of jail free" card.
On this card is my full name and phone number.
A police officer was shot in this neighborhood a couple of weeks ago.
You all know the incident I'm speaking of, right? I'm looking for the officer's gun.
A Glock 9 which happened to misplace itself during this incident.
Now, I don't care I don't care who has it now.
I just need it to find its way home.
Y'all don't happen to know a fellow by the name of Peanut, right? I didn't think so.
Anyway, gentlemen, you know, one hand washes the other.
You give me a good word on that gun and I can make almost any charge disappear.
Any questions? - Huh? Get them out.
Shit, I had to try something.
One each.
Keep it moving.
Little boys.
Yellow tops all day long.
Right here.
All right.
Come and see him and get that knockout shit, all right? Much obliged.
Good luck.
Yo, he down across Fremont? - Yeah.
Now we're on this side.
And Barksdale is down the way.
Got the red tops, y'all, red tops! Spider bags here! My nigger.
Yo, spider bags! Come get the red tops, red tops! - Major crimes unit.
Look.
It's slowly building up.
Not enough.
He's not in right now.
To what do we owe the honor? Just checking in.
Why? You got something going on? Nothing too sexy.
Just pushing a case uphill inch by inch on Kintel Williamson, our stated target.
We're working too, Lester.
Yeah, on your own thing.
You even listening to me, McNulty? I got a real case to bring in.
Stringer Bell.
You might have heard of him.
You got a mouth on you, boy.
He's still out there, Lester.
He's got his corners, his money.
Fuck it.
For all you know, he's got all that downtown real estate.
Motherfucker probably owns half Baltimore.
That ain't the point.
Do you even know what happened to all that real estate? All that downtown property Bell has title on? Fuck, no.
He's probably laughing his balls off right now.
At all of us.
You even pretending to speak for anyone other than yourself? - I'm speaking for the job.
You wanna talk about police work? I was doing the job when you was just dreaming it.
Daniels was out there too.
Now, you gonna fuck him when he pulled you off a goddamn boat? He's a boss.
Fuck the bosses.
Maybe Daniels plays a few games to get by but he's cost himself plenty for the sake of the job! - He's earned some loyalty.
Fuck loyalty and fuck you.
I never thought I'd hear that chain-of-command horseshit from you.
Motherfucker, I've spent a lot of time in a lot of weak units.
More than you.
Now, this here may not be perfect, but it's a chance to be police.
Well, then be one.
You're not even worth the skin off my knuckles, junior.
Jimmy, don't.
You put fire to everything you touch, then you walk away while it burns.
I got nothing more to say to you.
Nothing.
And you I'm surprised at you, girl.
Daniels raised you from a pup.
Gotta get with Bubs.
Check on those fucking properties.
Well, Major Colvin, what do you think? Well, it all sounds good.
But before I give you a final answer, I need to speak with my wife.
I'm not talking about the position.
Your cheesecake.
The cheesecake's fine.
They bring it in from Michael's, out on York Road.
It's got a little cinnamon in the crust.
None better.
Of course, I'd like to think our offer's pretty damn good too.
Excuse me while I go to the little boys' room, gentlemen.
I need to tinkle.
Tinkle? I never understood why a grown-ass man gotta talk like that.
He need to take a piss, whether he know it or not.
You'll get used to these academic types, Bunny.
Especially when you get that first paycheck.
I mean, 80K is nothing to sneeze at for a number-two security job.
Full bennies on top of your pension.
Yeah, it's generous.
And dull.
In a good way.
I mean the worst you'll ever see is a rape.
A date rape, maybe.
Ready to take it down a notch, aren't you? - Hell, yes.
Yeah, that's how I felt.
My only regret was that I didn't tell the Deputy Ops to stick it in his ass on my way out the fucking door.
Hey, Johns Hopkins wants you, Bunny.
And they wanna pay Johns Hopkins money.
But what? You gotta ask your wife? No, I ain't gotta ask her nothing.
I'm just letting Mr.
Jenkins stew a little, is all.
Wonder what's keeping him.
All he had to do was tinkle.
I guess he felt the need to make a dookey too.
They got corners up on Argyle and along Fremont up top.
Avenue corners belong to everybody.
Some who were with Barksdale and some independent-like.
McHenry Street got some of Barksdale's people too.
But Gangster Webster's crew is right beside them.
What about the Lower Avenue corners and the Poe Homes? They belong to this young boy named Marlo.
Go by the name of Black.
Marlo? Young boy.
Got all that good real estate near downtown.
Got himself the lunch-time trade.
If Bell and Barksdale were gonna hold anything they'd hold on to the Homes and Avenue corners.
Marlo one of Barksdale's people? Marlo what? Come on, you got anything else on this guy? You got another tip, maybe? So much for the hourly wage.
That's the tag on the truck he ride.
Did you prime it? That little rubber ball right there, next to the spark plug.
You gotta push it in three times before you try to start it.
Gets the gas going to the carb.
You want the truth? I ain't never used one of these.
Never had no call to.
Well, I didn't pick you up for your landscaping skills.
All these Spanish? They own paper too.
I only use people like y'all.
Sometimes it comes back on me, sometimes it works out fine.
For how long you been uptown? - Ten years.
Hotter than a motherfucker out here.
Yeah, it's hot.
Every day.
You gonna be riding in the back of that hard truck, bouncing around, every day.
And your back's gonna be yelling at you every day.
I used to drive an SL.
Pretty gold convertible.
Nice rims.
I don't even think on that car no more.
You put it behind you, huh? - Some can.
I'm just saying, you wanna stay on the straight, ain't gonna be no big reward to it.
This is it, right here.
Prime that bitch three times.
She'll start right up.
Miss Pearlman? - Cedric.
How goes Kintel Williamson? - Anything there for me yet? - No, not yet.
We'll get there.
Is that all you came by to tell me? Just keeping the lines of dialogue open.
So, what's on your plate? Oh, there's plenty of surprises around here.
Parole hearing.
This soon? He fingered a dirty guard up at Jessup, apparently.
Got a big gold star next to his name.
That's some bullshit.
Yeah, well, not to worry.
They send me the hearing notifications for a reason.
"Mr.
Barksdale ran a continuous violent criminal enterprise "and was a major drug trafficker.
"During the years 1999 to 2002" "he was strongly suspected to have ordered or caused "the deaths of over a dozen individuals.
" Parole Commission's not gonna walk him on his first trip to the plate.
Not after a letter like that.
Good work.
I have my moments.
Nice suit, by the way.
Thanks.
I see you dress left.
Every day.
The number is no longer in service.
If you feel you've reached this in error, please check the number and dial Nothing? That's an address up off of Reisterstown, same one he was showing two years ago when I ran the car he was using.
Stringer's a settled guy.
Not there, he ain't.
Woman living there, last time I checked.
Just a front name.
His girl, maybe.
Not unless he likes them over 50 and asshole-ugly.
I'm sure she's real nice.
Good school spirit.
Always says hi in the halls.
You think he met her in college? What? What did I say? - Huh.
What you got? Tag comes back to an address over on Dukeland.
Female, 53 years.
See? That's how they do.
Yeah, but I got a hit on a Marlo, street name of Black.
Marlo Stanfield.
22 years.
BPI number and a pretty good sheet.
You thought he'd be cherry? I knew he'd have his cherry busted, but not like this.
Check it out.
Think I'm gonna take a ride to Homicide.
Wanna come? Nope, got someplace to be.
This thing with Lester I feel like shit about it.
Well, you'll get used to it.
We get out of the car, crowd parts like the Red Sea, victim's on the ground, bleeding, screaming, "I'm gonna kill that fucking bitch.
" But it's like nothing's really wrong with him Homicide.
Ah, shit.
You tried to sneak by me, didn't you? I was just coming in quiet and respectful.
For a big man, you do have a dancer's grace.
But I, sir, I have the eyes of an eagle.
And the fact that you tried to slither into work undetected does not bode well for the recovery prospect of our missing firearm, does it? - I'll get it.
Mm-hm.
What up, Mr.
Bunk? - Hey, girlfriend.
Vernon Holley working tonight? Er, yeah, he's four to 12.
You should try the coffee room.
All right.
Man, I would murder that - if she wasn't - Particular? Hey, Crossfield, that line that's blinking's for you.
Find that gun.
Yeah, OK.
Motherfuck you too.
Marlo Stanfield, aka Black.
Boy's the spawn of the devil, Kima.
I see.
And y'all damn near had him on this murder.
What happened? - We had a wit.
Boy they called Pooh Bear, chubby fellow with braids.
We stashed Pooh over in East Baltimore, even had him wear one of those electronic bracelets so we could find him quick.
You lost him? - Not exactly.
Boy went back to the West Side to cop some hydro.
He could've bought the same weed where he was, right? We found him with two in his chest and one in his mouth.
The bracelet led us right to where he fell.
Those things work.
Yeah.
Marlo's serious.
That motherfucker's real.
I don't know, I think a volcano's way better than a computer.
You see computers every day.
How often do you see a volcano? - Yeah, but that guy built the computer.
You built the volcano.
Big whoop.
Can I keep it? Yeah, if you want to.
Good night, Mikey.
Good night.
Sleep tight.
OK.
It's good that you came.
He was very proud.
Glad to.
Jimmy, um, there's a problem with the alimony.
What's the problem? You're behind by, like, four months.
What can I tell you? I'm paying 2,000 a month in support.
After that, there's nothing left.
Right.
But you signed a separation agreement that gives me another 1,000 in alimony.
I only signed that fucking thing cos I thought we'd be together.
Look at how much I make.
I'm not even close to being able to pay that.
My lawyer says that we have to serve you.
That suit of a boyfriend won't cough up any cash? Blood from a stone, darling.
Beginning today, you can sell drugs in West Baltimore, but only where we say you can.
Push themhard.
Get to it, people, and don't get captured.
Hey.
Stay right there.
Get him up against the wall.
Hey.
Listen to what I'm telling you.
You know, kids, this is a simple fucking thing we're saying.
If you stay on this corner, you're going in a wagon.
If you move yourself down to the free zone, down to the vacants along Vincent Street, then you can do whatever the fuck you want.
How much fairer can we be? I saw that, you little fuck.
What's your name? Huh? - You got a name? - Peanut Butter and Jelly.
Address? - Huh? - What's your address? - I stay over on Dolphin Street.
Your address, numb nuts.
Huh? Are there any numbers on the front of your fucking house? Listen up.
This corner is indicted.
We're coming back tomorrow, and when we do, everybody wears bracelets unless you move your shit down to Vincent Street, down where the houses are all vacant.
You do that, we don't give a shit! Vincent Street is like Switzerland or Amsterdam.
What the fuck is that? It's one of those countries where drugs are legal.
Vincent Street is your Amsterdam in Baltimore.
You go down there, we don't give a fuck.
You stay here, you go to jail.
I ain't going to no Hamsterdam.
He killed a witness, huh? - The way that Vernon Holley told it, yeah.
So Marlo's a hitter.
Maybe he works with Stringer.
Makes sense.
If you need me, I'm gonna be West Side.
What about you? I gotta get the scent of my boy, Stringer.
We've been off him too long.
What's your first move? Something Prez said.
P and P? B and B.
Like the liquor.
You mean, liqueur, Plauzinski - Pryzbylewski.
Bndictine and brandy.
That was invented by a bartender over at Club 21.
All that good shit comes out of New York.
I need every deed transfer involving that company, Harry.
Today.
I'm asking them corner boys if they know where the Barksdale package is.
And they looking at me like I ain't even talking.
On this strip, Marlo's the name ringing out.
There he is.
You see him? He didn't stay too long.
Shit, yeah, Marlo's ghosting.
We're sensitive about giving out personal data on matriculating students.
Well, I could come back with a court order.
Then I'd have to give it to you.
Look.
My man has serious issues with women.
Domestic violence, really ugly stuff.
I can't show you any paper.
But let me get my screen up.
What did we tell you? What'd we fucking tell you, man? We told you to get yourselves down to the free zone, didn't we? We're trying to give you guys a break.
We're offering you a What's that? - Amnesty.
You take your crew down to Vincent Street.
You do your dirt, nobody's gonna bother you.
What do you say? You guys fucking brain-dead? What do you say? - Huh? Huh? - Hah? Hah? How you gonna come up here and try to game us? - Say what? - I'm saying you acting like we retarded.
Better we put a foot in your ass? - At least we'd understand.
This ain't a trick, shitbird! - We grind and y'all try to stop it.
That's how we do.
Why you got to go and fuck with the program? All due respect.
Nothing but tumbleweeds.
Get me some buses.
Tomorrow we clean the corners.
Put them all in one place and give them the news.
And I'm not asking anymore.
From here to Fremont, you got Barksdale's people, East Siders and freelancers too.
On the same corners? - Yup.
That shit don't make sense.
Can we call it a day, Kima? - Bullshit, man.
You too? What the fuck is up with these phones? I've been seeing kids throw them away all day.
They got cash like that to waste? Them shits be laying all over, man.
Sometimes you find minutes on them, sell them for walking-around money.
They burners, Kima.
Burners? Gunshots in this alley Another murder.
In Waverly, no less.
You believe it? I would be fucking shocked if it was an African-American perpetrated the crime.
It ain't even funny, Ash.
This is why everyone is leaving this city, black and white.
At a community meeting in West Baltimore, people were mad, and I don't blame them.
They could move to a better neighborhood.
If they were willing to work for it.
I've heard that "my immigrant father made it "so why can't the blacks?" bullshit my whole life.
There's not good people on the West Side who want the same? OK, Mrs.
Roosevelt.
All's I'm saying is, it's not about color.
So what's your next move, Tommy? The Sun says an Anderson State Senate seat is up for grabs.
Fuck that, you could go after Ruppersberger in the second.
He's only got one term.
I'm gonna run for mayor.
That's good.
Mayor Tommy.
Is she in the right joint? She lets me sit next to her, I buy her a drink - We each give you ten.
20 if you fuck her.
Please, Ash.
Show just a little more class.
Besides, I already had my day in the sun.
Bullshit, Tommy.
Once a gash-hound The bet is the bet.
You said I lost a step.
I'm gonna prove I never did.
You in, Pete? - I'll pass.
Can I have two Glenlivets? How you doing? - The son of a bitch did it.
He did you.
That's Theresa D'Agostino.
Mario D's kid? Yeah, she grew up all right.
She's down in DC now with the national party.
A campaign fixer.
No shit.
Tommy's known her ever since law school.
Just hear me out, OK? One drink.
Go ahead.
You're paying for it.
Actually, they are.
Oh, you made a bet.
Don't tell me we have to kiss or something.
Not gonna happen.
This isn't about ankle straps in a two-and-a-half star hotel, is it? The alumni dinner ended an hour ago - and I could be back in DC - That's the old me, Terri.
Everything I got now, my wife, my kids I would not risk losing them.
No way.
Seeing you with your old gang made me think bad thoughts.
Your friends cheapen you, Tommy.
You're just pissed off that they didn't recognize you when you walked in.
And why would they? I mean, you're a Washingtonian now.
That's Pete Sinopoli over there, isn't it? - Hear he's back to practicing law.
Yeah.
He just didn't have it, did he? I have it, Terri.
I'm going to make a run for mayor.
And you're gonna run my campaign.
Give me one good reason why not to.
I could give you ten, but here's the good one.
You're the wrong color.
You're not electable here.
And I never play the long shot.
You like to win.
I don't like to lose.
It's not the same thing.
Where's the fun if you know you'll win? You handled that Democrat in East LA, what was his name - Garcia - Valdez.
Valdez.
How hard was that? I need someone like you on my side.
I need you.
How big a win bonus? Get a white mayor elected in Baltimore, honey, you name your price.
One drink was the deal.
Go home, sleep it off.
You'll wake up and realize you're making a mistake.
I can do this.
Question is, are you gonna come with me? B and B.
Hello? Yo, how we not gonna throw a few hot ones at the motherfuckers? One ass-whupping and we back off like some bitches.
Then we on this off-brand-ass strip.
Ain't even enough trade for Poot and his crew.
Bullshit, man! Look, man, Stringer gonna fix it, man, you'll see.
Which one of y'all is Slim Charles? - Who asking? - That'd be Cutty.
Your boy gave me a number, said to ring you up when I was ready to put in some work, but no answer.
Took your time calling back, right? The numbers don't play after a few days, man.
We change them up.
Ain't you know nothing? Respect, dawg, respect.
Y'all don't know who y'all talking to, man.
You still ain't say your business.
I'm trying to get put on.
What you got in mind? - Whatever you got that pays.
Yo, Poot.
Come here, man.
Man, look, man, call Shamrock, man, and tell him soldier's finally came into the camp.
You a soldier, huh? - Chill, Bodie, man, chill, man.
Bodie Broadus? - Yeah, that's right.
Shit, I remember your little ass when you was still in diapers.
I used to spar with your older brother, James.
That boy had a killer left.
Yeah, when he ain't drop it.
Yo, he still out here? James been dead.
Fuck's up with that cheese box? What, you ain't never ridden no school bus before? I'm saying, what they doing with them niggers? Look, dawg, first thing we gonna need to do is get you some chrome.
Look, come on, man.
What's wrong with my fucking phone? Shit.
Yo, TJ, you got one with some minutes left? Which is not to say you couldn't multi-use the Howard Street properties.
Residential-commercial could work.
On Howard Street? The whole point of the block grant is to bring the West Side back to make it high-end.
The Hippodrome project was just the start.
But residential? With the stadium and the theater back on line, that area is like Inner Harbor East ten years ago.
And the thing is, you're on the ground floor with what you're holding.
Yes, you are, String.
So we're still talking more return than just flipping the properties for the condemnation money.
Way more.
Excuse me.
Yo.
No.
Not right now.
A half-hour.
No, so go ahead and fill it up.
You got the order number, right? - Man, move your ass.
Man, this some bullshit.
My mom's gonna be worried.
Y'all kidnapping niggers.
I'm Major Colvin.
My name is Major Colvin.
Major what? - Major these, motherfucker.
We had to bring you down here this afternoon because you've not been complying with our directives.
Say what? You haven't been doing what we asked.
When I'm done.
I gotta pee now.
He ain't playing.
Smell like he already pissed in his drawers.
All right, go ahead.
Yo, I gotta go too.
You're gonna have to wait.
How you gonna discriminate? Yo, faggy, why you touch my butt? That's enough! The fun is over.
Tyrell, why weren't you in school today? I couldn't make it out the bathroom.
Stand up when I talk to you, young man.
I know your mother, Tyrell.
She didn't raise any clowns, now, did she? No, ma'am.
It's yours, Major.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we brought you down here because you're here to learn about the new way The new way that we're going to do things on the corners.
That's downtown.
Yeah.
Well, that makes no sense.
All four.
Go ahead, rip me a new asshole.
Ask me where I've been for two days.
Tell us, hotshot.
College registrar gives up Stringer's course schedule.
I tail him to where he's laying his head.
Downtown high-rise.
Name's on the lease too.
No attempt to hide it.
I get up early, follow him from his door to a lunch meeting with the state senator.
Same one with the bagman we bounced the last time around.
Couple of white guys too, nobody I read.
And all the while Stringer's using his cellphone, making calls like it ain't no thing.
Shit, I even rang it up myself.
Got his number from an admissions form.
The number wouldn't be 8447393? I had Prez pull the B and B property assessments and land transfers from Circuit Court.
Some of the paperwork asked for a contact number.
So I'm not surprised our boy's using his cellphone so freely.
Those, right there, are the incoming and outgoing numbers on his phone.
And damn near all of them are downtown exchanges.
Architectural firms, city licensing, attorneys, zoning offices.
Even campus exchanges over at BCCC.
You saying he's right? - I'm saying the phone is right.
Account information confirms he's had that number listed for quite a while.
Nice work.
Maybe the cellphone is clean because he's keeping it.
If it was dirty, it'd probably be a burner.
Hmm.
Disposables.
The latest in yo-tech.
They make a couple of calls with a burner, throw it away.
Go on to the next phone, do the same.
There's more of those things laying around West Baltimore than empty vials.
How the fuck you supposed to get a wire up on that? Yeah, well, first it was payphone and pagers.
Then it was cellphones and face-to-face meets.
Now this.
The motherfuckers do learn.
Every time we come at them, they learn and adjust.
So Stringer's out of reach.
You know, a couple of years ago, when they were buying that downtown real estate, I thought they were buying it to flip it and get the cash when the federal payout money lands and the properties are condemned.
Bell and Barksdale haven't sold any of it.
They're buying more and applying for building permits.
Seems Stringer Bell is worse than a drug dealer.
He's a developer.
Jesus, fuck, he's really legit? Well, you real police.
Now he's out in the open, why don't you pull him up and ask him? You need a few days, I'll stall Daniels.
But after that, you come home with a case we can use or you swallow your goddamn pride and rejoin this unit.
How you doing, Donette? "I'm fine, String.
I missed you, baby.
" Look, I'm sorry for not returning them calls.
"Sorry" don't keep my bed warm at night.
Shorty, I been running.
Ain't like I'm trying to shut you out.
I just got business to attend to, you know? Do you know how it feels to be alone out here? Police coming to my door, and I got no one to stand beside me.
You say the detective left you a card? Man say D'Angelo wasn't no suicide.
Something about the way the marks was on his neck.
He said Dee could have been murdered and shit.
Sit down.
Now listen to me.
Everyone in them walls know who Avon is.
Ain't nobody gonna do his nephew.
All right? Now, as far as you and me go I did you wrong by keeping you at arm's length but it ain't gonna be like that no more.
Oh, yeah.
God made that.
Couldn't be no accident.
So why am I on your tab tonight? Tell the truth.
I dare that to walk by me again.
She better not.
Why you buying, Bunk? I got two dead in what feels like a drug rip up in Pimlico.
And the young 'uns out on the scene, they seem to know this Omar fella by sight.
I need Omar, Jimmy.
Again? Jesus, Bunk.
Yeah.
Fuck it, then.
Number three? No, that worked for you last time.
The blonde at the juke.
Oh, I really liked her.
Everybody likes everybody when they're kissing.
But no, my friend down there she's a number two, I think.
And when it comes up, my mother passed.
A week ago.
And I'm having a little trouble getting over it.
That's why I'm feeling so blue tonight.
OK, your mom's dead and you're sad.
Yeah.
You my boy.
The same way.
My mom died about a week ago, and Yo, what's up, boss? You got the phone receipts from the Virginia run? All right.
From now on, I want you to deal with these.
All right.
If my man Bernard doing it like we said and making them runs, then I don't wanna have to deal with this no more.
For sure.
And if Donette call me - I know.
Tell that bitch you busy.
No.
I'm gonna take the call.
Rhondie? Rhondie, Rhondie! Rhonda! "He was suspected to have ordered or caused the deaths "of over a dozen individuals.
" Suspected.
It's rumor and innuendo.
There isn't one allegation in this letter that wasn't raised by the Assistant State's Attorney at the trial.
And given my client's superlative record during his incarceration and given his notable role in identifying the source of the overdose deaths at this facility last year, I ask that you honor our existing agreement - and approve Mr.
Barksdale's early release.
Bullshit! - Hold your comments, Trooper.
We made a commitment, Counselor.
Given what this institution was dealing with a year ago, this is the lesser evil.
Rockefellers! Rockefellers on the spot! Man, that's him right there.
In that G35, man.
Boy in the retro? - That shit is tight.
$430, it better be.
Hell, yeah.
I'm gonna get me one of those motherfuckers.
You must be going to get that Muggsy Bogues.
You're gonna be swimming in that Unseld.
As usual, man, y'all fools are missing my point.
That boy came up short on that money last week and y'all see how he out here grinding, so where that money at? You need to look beyond what he driving or wearing on his back.
That boy got a girlfriend? He run with this little freak at the high school.
She wearing ice? She wearing a onion, that's all I can remember.
Hell, yeah.
Check out the girl.
High-school girl with platinum around her neck, only one place it came from.
Give my man his thing.
SIG Sauer.
That ain't no Lorcin, dawg.
I'm used to revolvers, man.
.
38 don't jam.
Don't hold 15, neither.
Game done changed.
Game the same.
Just got more fierce.
I'm not big on vacations.
Yeah, who has time? What about taking the boys down to Ocean City for a weekend or something? You ever been down the ocean? Listen.
It wasn't like I was waiting for an opening with Rhonda.
It just happened.
I should have told you sooner.
I need to know this isn't going to be a thing between us.
No, I wish you both all the best.
Was I very loud last night? Thanks for making this easy on me.
You coming? No, I think I'll stay here a while, nurse this.
Then I'll shove off.
One more, and put a beer next to it.
Nigger, what's up? You good? Yo.
Look at you.
Oh! You ain't gotta leave, huh? Shit is on.
This what I'm talking about.
Whoo! Drink that shit.
I'm surprised Avon be letting y'all get your heads up.
Sometimes you got to.
Kiss the sky, nigger.
Ready to go? - Yeah.
Are you all right to drive? I thought you were the designated driver tonight.
No, I'm good, really.
I'm good to go.
Thanks! Bitch with one leg named Aaliyah.
What kind of shit is that? Oh, shit.
You do still like females, don't you? - Shit.
He home now.

No, Bubs.
I mean, there's gotta be rules, or else things get fucked up.
Ain't no rules with dope fiends.
When the police got you shackled up, you make a move, right? You help yourself out.
But to just start snitchin' for no reason - Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Let me track this.
You hypopulatin' that you can tattletale when you locked up but you can't do it straight up for the money? I mean, no offense, son, but that's some weak-ass thinkin'.
You equivocatin' like a motherfuck.
OK, so a snitch is a snitch, right? - There you go.
So why be one, man? We're gettin' by with our capers.
We gettin' by out here rippin' and runnin' and ain't got shit to show for it.
It's part of bein' a soldier, right? That's what you say.
That's why I put all this mileage in these feet.
You wait till you ain't a pup no more.
See if you ain't lookin' for something a little more steady for your own self.
What the fuck? You ill already? It's ain't even past morning.
I'm cool, man.
I'm fine.
Look, we hook up with my girl Kima, we get paid, you gonna be better.
Fuck that, Bubs, all right? I'm not a fuckin' snitch.
You know, I could argue the other side - say if you drop dime to duck a charge, you a snitch.
You do it as a living, you a professional.
Hold up, hold up, hold up.
You see that ladder right there? Just like old times, man.
I'll be the bad guy, you be the Lone Ranger.
Leave that man be.
We get paid more hooking up to my girl.
But that's cash money right there.
With the white man, I best be the bad guy.
That way he ain't confused.
All right, meet me in the alley.
Fuck.
Yo, mister.
Yo.
Throw down your wallet, or I'll jerk this ladder right out.
What? No! - I ain't playing.
Throw down the goddamn money.
No, please.
Help! OK! Hey! Leave that man alone! Oh! Thank you.
It's crazy, man.
What's that guy doing? - Shit.
Here.
I can't.
No, you saved my ass.
It's appreciated, you know.
Yo, Bubs, you won't fuckin' believe this.
Bubs.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole Dennis, you up? Dennis! Mee-maw, hey.
Guess you're not workin' today, huh? - I'm workin' nights now.
At a bar.
Workin' the door.
You know, it's just - Just till I find something a little bit better.
Yeah? Reminds me.
Your friend called again this morning.
She said for you to remember your appointment.
Says there's a job in it, if you still lookin'.
So Marlo, right? He got this one boy watchin' his back, name be Chris Partlow.
Bartlow with a B? "Part" like white people got in their hair.
And "low" like a low-bottom dope fiend.
Partlow.
Yeah, what I said.
So he's Marlo's muscle.
So, what - How much is that worth? - Five, if I can work up a photo ID.
The boy, Fruit, he used that.
Fruit who runs one of Marlo's corners? - Careful, it got prints.
Prints? Look at you, gettin' all CSI on me and shit.
A burner with prints, that gotta mean cash money, right? If I could pull a print, get Fruit ID'd, I can go to $10.
And if I show you where Marlo hides his Mercedes? Benz would go for 15.
You don't know it, but these are hard times.
You killing me out here, girl.
All right.
25 for the Benz.
You good peoples.
So let's total up.
We at 40, right? - Here, bank that for me.
Bank it? For what? Got me a plan, girl.
The hoppers here only be wearing them big white T-shirts a couple of times before they chuck 'em.
So I'm thinkin', while I'm out here working for y'all, I sell them shirts on the corner.
I'll make my nut comin' and goin'.
I don't know what more you could have done.
Charlie's right, boss.
You tried.
Fucking hoodleheads won't cooperate.
You give them their own block or two, offering them a place to sell drugs in peace, and do they listen? It's a damn shame too, 'cause if it worked, you might have had a positive effect on the community.
Shift commander, call the front desk.
You guys are some lying sacks of shit.
I'm saying, sir - I'm guessing that you have some thoughts on where we should go from here.
Well, sir, we were thinking a modified zebra operation.
Jump-outs from sector to sector, and a zero-tolerance approach.
We detail a couple of men from each shift, build a flex unit, double up on head-knocking and corner-clearing.
More of the same, you mean.
But better.
Better? Better than nothing.
Ah, fuck this bullshit already.
Man, they gave us 15 cases of legal but they shorted us on the colored bonds.
What's going on, man? Yo.
I got this.
Officer.
Detective, String.
You remember.
Bird trial.
Detective McNulty.
You want something copied, man? Search warrant, court papers? - Anything I can do to help, you know.
I ain't seen you around the way.
I'm not around the way no more.
You wanna find me, I'm right here.
Right here, huh? - Mm-hm.
This and some real estate I'm working on is all.
More than enough to occupy me, really.
Say, where you livin', man? - Where am I livin'? If you thinkin' of comin' downtown, I got some condos about to come on the line in eight months.
You say the word, I'm gonna hook you up something nice by the Hippodrome.
Loft apartments.
Real nice.
You disappoint me, String.
I had such fuckin' hopes for us.
Have a nice day, Officer.
You see this shit? Remember that kid who got shot in Lake Clifton a couple months back? Drug feud, right? What about it? Last night, they just found the only eyewitness in an alleyway, bunch of holes in him.
And? - What do you mean, "And?" You're talkin' about a state's witness.
You let a witness get killed in a case like this, it says - "The city's broke and can't be fixed.
" - Uh-oh.
Sounds like we found an issue.
Fuck the politics for a minute.
This is something we all need to be on the same page with.
I'm serious, Tony.
You let shit like this stand, pretty soon you got nothing left.
You gonna go public and bang the mayor with it? You gonna bang Burrell and the state's attorney, then? I ain't gonna bang nobody.
Like I said, fuck the politics for once.
But there is a problem here, and I'm gonna help fix it.
You want your cape and the little red underpants? Or you stash that shit in the phone booth? I always wondered about that.
Man, I'd like a piece of that.
You'd like any piece at all.
Nigger, I'd like a piece of your mother.
Stop fuckin' around.
I ain't started that shit.
Yo, now she got our boy with his nose wide open.
He's stealing from us and she most likely the reason for it.
Y'all stay with the girl.
She'll soon enough show us the money.
Where you goin'? I got something I gotta do.
You supposed to be here with us.
Y'all stay with the girl.
I'll get back with y'all down the way.
Say what? - I made a date a while back, got to keep.
Man made a date, got to keep.
We find out he pussy-whipped like this motherfucker over here.
Now, once again, from the data, - when are most cars stolen? - Sir, at night.
And your unit, which I believe is charged with deterring the theft of autos, when do you work? The day shift, eight to four.
But, sir, as I tried to explain You effect more arrests of car thieves during the daylight than at night.
You see, our ears work, we heard you.
But the question becomes - - why the fuck can't you hear us? - Sir, I don't The Commissioner is attempting to move this department into the 21 st century.
That means preventing crime by relying on computer-generated data, not on your fly-by-your-fucked-up-ass instinct.
Give me the auto-theft numbers for downtown parking lots on Friday nights.
Sir, I have to check that.
Where are we with the gun? Colonel, I was made to understand that recovering Officer Dozerman's weapon was a priority.
The gun, yes, we're on it, sir.
Making progress as we speak.
Lieutenant? Sir, I now understand that prevention is the way to go, and we'll immediately change our hours to reflect the data.
All right, Lieutenant.
Fecal gravity.
You beat on the right people and the shit rolls down the hill.
Dennis, is it? - Cutty works for me.
Cutty, then.
So it's just gonna be us here? - You know, I mean, Grace - Sister Grace called on your behalf, but to my knowledge, she didn't plan to be here.
She's a beautiful woman.
A man might say things he didn't mean to stand closer to a woman like that.
You're in the job market, though, I understand.
A couple of questions.
You got a high-school diploma, GED? Any work experience? I worked in a warehouse for a couple of months back in, like, '86.
How do you see the church helping you? Maybe get me some jobs or put my name on a list or something.
I don't know.
To tell you up front, we don't do that here.
You want a job, you'll have to work to get it.
We'll help, but it's gonna be your sweat.
With that said, then, the first thing is to get you enrolled in a GED program.
Look, I don't mean to put you out, but this this ain't how I thought it was gonna play.
Me, Oscar, a bunch of the guys we seen it.
Couldn't help it.
They practically ran right past us.
And the victim, the girl, had a gun.
Whose side was she on? Couldn't tell.
They weren't doin' slow motion.
Did any of 'em have a big scar? Do you think you'd be able to recognize any of them? - Just Omar.
So you know Omar? Omar came up around here.
That's good, Bruiser, very good.
You do know Omar has a scar, right? - He do? We better go to my office, put this down on paper.
Come on.
Officer.
Excuse me, Officer.
Is this North and Pulaski? Cos I could fucking swear Dozerman was shot up at North and Pulaski.
No, wait, let me guess.
The pursuit of your fellow officer's service weapon has led you to this fine citizen.
Tell me, kind sir, do you know the whereabouts of said officer's weapon? I didn't think so.
Calls from the detention center.
Some kind souls begging to assist you in your foundering investigation.
Oop! Let me just grand-jury my man here, lock in his story.
Now for the gun.
Later for his story.
And that's your sergeant talking.
Wipe your nose, yo.
What the fuck? - Oh, shit.
Motherfucker, you scared the shit out of us comin' up like that.
This shit do make you paranoid, yo.
Go on, nigger, hit this shit.
No, man, I gotta drop urine tomorrow.
You worried about that? Go ahead, nigger.
We got that covered.
Oh, you got that covered? What, you think you're the only motherfucker on parole? - Yo, nigger, give me that shit.
There you go.
All right.
What was her day? - She caught a hack up to Towson Town Mall.
Hit two jewelry stores and came back with bags from both.
By the time she caught up with our boy, she was wearing one of them shits around her neck.
Gave the other one to him.
You know, his and hers, like.
Yeah, Cutty.
She was on that shit, man.
It's been a week, McNulty.
Either you got something on Stringer or you don't.
He tried to sell me a condo.
Cocksucker.
Might as well join the Rotary and take up golf or some shit.
Running with the hounds, but I bet his heart's still with the fox.
Stringer's out of the game? Mr.
Bell has become the bank.
The bank? The bank plays it legit.
He generates honest income.
But at the same time, his money finances packages that he himself will never touch.
He won't go near the street.
He's insulated from the everyday operations of the corner.
The money that comes back is then laundered through enough investments that there's no way to trace it.
A player gets to that point, there ain't no way in hell a working police is gonna tie a can to his tail.
Oh, man.
So, Kintel Williamson, the prince of Pimlico.
Where we at on this mope? - DNRs on a couple of payphones.
That got it? About right.
You gonna help or what, boy? Might as well not even take a whistle if I'm just standin' in the fuckin' alley.
Back's where you belong.
Thataway I ain't got to worry about getting my head blown off 'cause you all scared and shit.
Enough! Y'all hear me? I said enough.
Come over here and put some pumpkin balls in this shotgun, man.
Kimmy! Both of y'all learn to live with it, or y'all out, man.
Now, this time we gonna do it right.
Y'all feel me? Boss, you gotta let this go.
It ain't gonna work.
You said in COMSTAT shit rolls down.
We tried to talk to all the hoppers.
What can they do about anything? We need to bring it to the dealers.
Sergeant.
I need a list of names of all the mid-level dealers running my corners.
Sir? You are my DEU sergeant, right? I need a list of names.
Maybe narcotics downtown has something like that.
I don't know.
We're knockin' heads, takin' bodies.
I didn't know I was supposed to be doin' a census.
Hey, yo, miss.
Where the pee-pot at? Thanks.
Come on, this way.
My man need to drop a negative.
$5.
Motherfucker, they was just two.
You try findin' clean piss in Baltimore.
Five a go.
How I know it's clean? - I get mine from daycare.
I need you to put the chicken in the oven at 375.
Yes, and then I need you to help me put your sister down Excuse me, miss.
Put your thumb on the scanner.
Hold on a second.
What's your name? - Wise, Dennis Wise.
Take one of those.
Go around the corner to the second door.
No, you cannot go outside.
Are you listening to what I'm saying? That's all we got on the West Side dealers.
George.
I'm lookin' at a sprinklin' of rap sheets here.
You tellin' me nobody know who controls West Baltimore corners? Rawls has my people doin' street rips.
You want info, try the intelligence unit.
Shit, they sent me to you, George.
What the fuck can I tell you? With all the street work, ain't nobody left doin' high-end drug stuff.
From what I'm hearing, the guy comes in of his own accord and he gets betrayed by us.
Protection in this city amounts to nothing more than getting dumped in a fleabag joint on Route 40 and calling it a plan.
No monitoring, no assistance.
Nothing.
Just a bundle of clothes and a toothbrush.
Jesus.
No way to treat a cooperator.
I could get a lot out of this with the press.
But fuck that, because that way everybody gets defensive and nothing gets fixed.
I'm coming to you with this, straight up.
Agreed.
Where do we stand on this? You've already called a meeting on it with the state's attorney and the Police Commissioner.
It's penciled in for next Wednesday.
No, Tommy's right on this.
We need to act quickly.
I'm glad you came to us with this.
I'll light a fire, believe me.
All right, thanks.
Uh, you will keep me in the loop on this? - Absolutely.
Councilman.
Slow up, we need to talk.
Yeah, sweet thing.
We met before? - No, baby, but that can happen.
We ain't met, excuse me.
It's just talk, baby.
Get the fuck out the way.
Look, girl, all we need you to do is talk.
Is you deaf or just stupid? - Hold on, girl Damn.
Now we gonna talk.
How the fuck is this little runt of a unit holdin' all this drug intelligence? At headquarters I came up with jack, and y'all holdin' all this.
You run a couple of wiretaps, you fill up a file cabinet pretty fast.
This is great.
Thanks.
Oh, shit! God damn it! I heard this was where you landed.
This pretty boy, I broke his ass in.
I wrote more on ID complaints on bushy top here than on the whole goddamn squad.
That's till he scuffed himself up.
Now where you at, McNulty? - 1911 South Clinton Street, first floor.
There you go.
Yeah.
I know you gotta keep him close but still, that's a good goddamn police right here.
So what brings you to our shop? I'm tryin' to find out who running my corners.
My own DEU is just about street rips, and headquarters wasn't no help, neither.
Y'all saved my ass, though.
You tell him about your boy, Marlo? It's in the files, along with every other mid-level player we know.
You don't mind me askin', what are you gonna do with all that, Major? Well we'll round up these young men and put a little COMSTAT on their ass.
Gentlemen.
Ma'am.
Bushy top.
Bushy top? Uh, point of order and shit.
Chair recognize the esteemed rep of the Veronica Avenue boys.
All right, look, we done talked this shit to death, all right? - When we gonna vote? - Rick do have a point.
All right, then.
All those in favor of goin' together so we can get the best discount on a New York package, raise up.
All right, then.
There it is.
Look like we gonna make more money, together.
I'm proud of y'all for putting aside petty grievances and puttin' this thing together.
For a cold-ass crew of gangsters, y'all carried it like Republicans and shit.
Remember, man, talk this shit up when you hit them bricks.
Best way to get more involved is to tell people about the benefits of this here thing.
No beefing, no drama, just business.
Anybody got problems with anybody else here, we bring it to the group.
We ain't gotta take it to the streets.
All right.
Let's do it.
Yo.
Motherfucker, what is that? The Robert Rules say we gotta have minutes for a meeting.
These the minutes.
Nigger, is you takin' notes on a criminal fuckin' conspiracy? What the fuck is you thinking, man? - That's cool.
Dad, he's cheating.
Michael, take it easy on your brother.
How are you two getting along with Mom's new friend? - We call him Dennis.
He's not new.
OK, how are you doin' with him? Mom says we can't talk to you about family stuff.
Dad, you going to the open house? Yeah, I'll try.
I've been real busy at work, though.
New case and all.
Mom says you have to go, Dad.
All the other kids' fathers are gonna be there.
Get his legs.
Aagh! Argh! - Steal from us, motherfucker? - Get the ring too, yo.
Shit won't come off, yo.
Drop him.
Arrrghh! You know the man works for us.
You keep goin' like that, ain't gonna be nothin' left of him to make right what he owes.
Bitch got to pay.
Check his pockets, yo.
Right.
That's mine, yo.
Fuck off! Get the fuck off! This is command to security.
What's up, baby? Man, I been here for 26 months, you come pick me up in a motherfuckin' Ford? I'm just fucking with you.
What's up, baby? What up, man? I'm feeling good to be out of this motherfucker.
There's a sign on the other side of this gate that say, "Never again.
" That's the only fucking thing I'm gonna take with me from here.
First things first.
Let's get you lookin' right.
You got my shit.
Yes.
Yes.
Good-looking, baby.
Start with Sector One.
Bring as many as you can down to Vincent Street by the end of the shift.
Don't use your wagons.
Bring as many as you can in your cars.
The hoppers wouldn't listen.
What makes you think these guys will? These are lieutenants running the corners and I personally feel their pain.
Now, middle-management means that you have just enough responsibility that you got to listen when people talk and not so much that you can tell anybody to go fuck themselves.
Get in.
Look, my major just wants to talk.
That's all, I promise.
We'll bring you right back.
Ain't gonna happen.
What the fuck you say? What the fuck you mean, it ain't gonna happen? Let me tell you something, motherfucker.
We got orders to bring you for a sit-down with our boss.
We're prepared to take you with us now.
We can either do this the easy way - Brain-dead fucks.
It's up to you.
Hello.
Prez, it's me.
I think we got a little situation here.
Stay with me.
10-6.
Major wants the dickhead, you gotta go.
I think he gets a pass this time.
You sure? I mean, you want, he goes.
Another time, Herc.
We're on the major's clock here.
Don't forget the face, cocksucker.
It's gonna be here tomorrow.
You need me to call dispatch? - No, it's OK.
I'll tell you later.
I say we get the troops and fuck these assholes up.
Come on, let's go again.
Come on, Tommy, it's just a game.
Look, sounds like you got what you want, anyway.
From the mayor, I mean.
Yeah, well, he's played me before.
But so help me, if he farts around on this, I'm goin' after him, big time.
For real? - Trust me on this.
He keeps ducking me, I'm gonna fuck him good.
That's the good part.
It's what I call the carrot.
Now, you move your people into any designated area I told you about, and you'll have immunity from arrest and prosecution.
You're free to make your drops, collect, won't nobody bother you.
You got my word on it.
What do you get outta this? - That's a fair question.
I want to salvage what's worth salvaging in my district.
I can't do that with a bunch of hoppers scaring the hell out of decent people.
Now, these kids ain't gonna listen to me, but they will listen to y'all.
You tell them to move down here and they will.
So the way I got it figured, I motivate you and you motivate them.
Nah, this is a trap.
No, you check out the spot.
There ain't no cameras, ain't no microphones, nothing.
Any cops you see going to be down right on the perimeter.
Just to make sure there's no violence.
And you watch.
You see if it don't work out the way I say.
Nothing personal against you, Chief, but what happens if we buck? You remember the carrot, right? Well, you choose the stick instead you gonna feel that stick like you ain't never felt before.
We gonna indict every corner, every day.
I got over 200 sworn personnel and I plan to free up every one to knock every one of y'all down they can.
You on a corner in my district, it ain't gonna be about no humble, it ain't gonna be about no loitering charge, nothing like that.
There gonna be some biblical shit happening to you on the way to that jail wagon.
And while you buckin' the new system, the smart ones among you gonna be down here, makin' money hand over fist.
So think it over.
But I swear to God, come Monday, your world and mine ain't gonna be the same.
I thought you said these goddamn houses were vacant.
We must have missed her.
That's one more thing I gotta do, then.
Little man, up on B tier, one of his boys in the dormitory, his brother's tight with the girlfriend of the boy that shot that police.
Little man saying, "If you sprung the three of us, "we can get her talking.
" You know, find the gun.
Yo, I'm hearing the boy Dink got that man's gun.
Now, I ain't sure yet if that Dink be Dink Dink or Inky Dink or maybe Fat Dink.
Then again, it might be Flatnose Dink.
No, wait.
Nah, that can't be him, that Dink dead.
Look, man, I can help you, but first you gotta get me out of these murder beefs.
How many murders are we talking? Look, man, do it have to be the cop's gun? Cos if it's guns you want, I can get you guns.
I remember this.
Sixth grade.
Miss Holley's science class.
Box lunches.
Taste like shit.
You got something so important you can't use the proper channels? Well, no.
I don't know.
I just figured if I told anybody but you, you might think I'm riding the rock.
What makes me think you ain't? Yeah, right.
That's a good point.
Look, today, me, Tuckie, Little Mikey, man, we all, a bunch of us got scooped up by the police.
Well, you shouldn't sell drugs.
All right, all right.
See, they didn't take us to the station.
They took us down to Vincent Street where all the houses is boarded up, and they let us out.
And then, on top of all of that, the whole while they was being all like decent and shit, and you know that fucked me up.
And then, like, the police chief, he come out - and this is the crazy part - he say that he got it set up so where we could sell stuff in certain spots and the police won't bother us.
I know, I know.
It's fucked up.
But I just thought you should know.
That's it? - Yeah, just that and the boy Marlo.
Yeah, I'm on it.
Yep.
Speaking to officer at Have Foxtrot meet me on six, Adam.
Foxtrot, 10-4.
23-03 to Foxtrot.
Foxtrot, standing by.
It's a black Mercedes, pulling out the lot.
Copy that, we got the eyeball.
This here the spot? Cos Tuckie says we supposed to set up shop here.
Huh? - Hamsterdam.
Yeah, this is it.
Set up anywhere inside where we got the white flags.
I'm ready to roll out.
You just got here.
What's wrong? Ain't nobody around to buy.
Good point.
Man needs customers.
I'm sayin' No.
I mean, you can't make me.
I'm a sworn fuckin' police officer.
What's up, man? You got that Body Bag still? Two.
Narco.
Give it up, motherfucker.
Money comes back, right now.
You fuckin' up.
You didn't let me cop before you snatch me up.
Is that some fuckin' rule? - You call, we haul.
You clean? - Yeah, of course I'm clean.
Stupid-ass rookie didn't give me a chance to cop.
This corner's indicted.
You move over to Vincent Street, or we come back with the bracelets.
Anybody available for complaint at - What you got? - 10-11 me at Riggs and Calhoun.
Despite unforeseen delays, we will begin an academy class this January, which leaves us in good shape for the coming year.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The chair pleases, I have a couple of questions.
Commissioner, you are aware that a state witness in a recent city homicide prosecution was killed.
Uh, we are treating that incident with the highest priority.
Homicide has set up a task force and Narcotics is working the informant angle.
We have also asked both the FBI and DEA for support.
It sounds like a full-court press, but you must admit it's a bit like closing the barn door after the horse is out.
The shooting of the boy at Lake Clifton School was a high-profile case, wasn't it, Commissioner? Yes, it was.
And yet a key witness in the case was allowed One moment.
Excuse me, but the chair reminds me that you have a pressing engagement.
So if it's all right with you, we can continue this at a later date.
Meeting adjourned.
Did you see Burrell sweat? - The man's collar almost melted.
What the hell got into you? You did, old buddy.
You did.
End of the line, all out.
We got that Rockefeller, yo.
We got that Rockefeller over here, yo.
Over here we got that Rockefeller.
What the fuck? Yo, yo, we got that Rockefeller, yo.
We got that WMD.
Right here, right here.
I hear the WMD is the bomb.
WMD.
Right here.
WMD.
Give me two, yo.
WMD.
Right here.
WMD, right here.
Right here.
Right here.
We got that Rockefeller over here.
We got that Rockefeller, yo.
What do we got? - There's binoculars on the floor.
Marlo makin' a move? - Just watch.
Forget everything the boy Bodie told you.
Forget the beating, it ain't about that.
You smart, man, I can see that.
I wanted you to choose somewhere safe for us to speak, but God damn only bugs in this motherfucker gonna have legs.
Now, I appreciate smart, but you gotta know in this game, man, it ain't enough.
You a student of history? You know this town had its share of smart players, man? Melvin, Little Wil, Big Head Brother, Peanut, Warren.
All real smart, man, real smart.
But you know, soon as their names rang out bam, the feds was on them.
You know what I mean? Government ain't want you to be organized.
They want you scrimpin' and scrapin' and killin' each other on the corner on some bullshit.
Not me.
That's why me and Prop Joe, we getting ready to put this co-op together.
Different crews, one package.
Best dope, best coke.
Share and share alike.
Been hearin' about that.
You been hearin' about that? That's good.
That's a start, right? You know that Mercedes you got ridin' out there, you got that titled in your aunt's name or some shit? Now, when they come get you, that straw purchase out there gonna come bite you in the ass, boy.
That's what they do.
They turn your money against you.
Now, you, I'm thinkin' with the corners that you got - you close to a mil, right? - I'm doin' all right.
You doin' all right, but all right ain't got your name on a crib, right? Ain't got you a little spot for you to wash that dirty money.
That's what I'm offering you, man.
Come on, who's he in there with? - I told you, keep watching.
Bunk put you up to this? Tell you what, how about a case of that PBR piss you drink against a touch of the Irish that he went out the back and you're watching that house for nothing? Here comes your nothing.
Whoa! Oh, ho ho ho ho! I like my piss in bottles.
Any way you like, darlin'.
Chris.
Tell our people to tool up.
I'm on it.
WMD.
Got that WMD.
They get comfortable pretty quick.
It's like we ain't even standin' here.
The hoppers call it Hamsterdam.
Like from Amsterdam.
Hamsterdam.
The use of integrated match concepts, such as algebraic reasoning and number sense, geometry and probability.
Very impressive.
Now what we try to do is keep the class size under ten, 12 at the most.
And there are three levels? - Yes, so that Sorry, I'm Jim McNulty.
I'm a little late, developments at work.
Mr.
McNulty.
I have some concerns about the integrated math program.
In their previous schools, Michael took introductory algebra but I hear you're doing something different.
We are.
The integrated program - I'm thirsty.
Can I get either of you something to drink? The integrated math program consists Not much of a spread but you can't go wrong with crudits.
Crudity? I'm sorry.
I came straight from work, or I'd have changed.
No need to call names, right? - What do you do, Mr - I'm on the board at Legg Mason.
Jim McNulty.
Legg Mason? Either that or I'm a cop in the city.
I keep forgetting.
Terri D'Agostino.
I'm an alumni and one of the school's dreaded fundraisers.
The math program offers tutoring possibilities.
So if Michael has difficulty adjusting, we can have classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
So how do you find the school? - It's good.
Good.
My ex and I are thinking of sending our boys here.
Any problems, difficulties? - No, not really.
I mean, there's the math integration class for my oldest.
He's in sixth, seventh, and I'm just not sure he's ready, you know, for all that math.
Aagh! - Careful, I'm only a country boy.
Shut up.
Hey, sweetie.
Welcome home.
How you doin'? What's up, man? How you doin'? Welcome back.
Hey, sis.
Man, I just wish I wasn't the only one coming home, you know.
I know.
Enjoy tonight.
We'll talk later.
Welcome home.
What up, Prop? How you doing, man? - You lookin' fit.
Hell, yeah, I've been working out.
That's all you do.
Might be a good place for a fat man to find his inner self.
Yo.
I got some downtown suits who wanna holler at you real quick.
Ah, shit.
Takin' me to see suits? I'm tryin' to see some skirts.
So what do you do? You should get dressed.
I got a lot of work here.
It's a long day for me tomorrow.
I'll be really quiet.
You never know, you might get bored workin'.
I gotta work.
You gotta go.
What Stringer has done with all that property downtown, Avon, I cannot tell the profit you're looking at once the federal redevelopment money lands.
That whole Howard Street thing will take off and you'll be right there to cut the pie.
Any dollar you spend now is gonna come back to you ten times.
And the thing is, I know you don't wanna go back to them streets.
Not after what you been through.
I know, 'cause I'm from them same streets.
And once I had the chance to play a different game it wasn't a question in my mind how to go.
Government's will look at you hard too.
No sense giving 'em what they're looking for.
You take what you have, you build on it.
It's all good.
Just put it up on the calendar.
We should meet.
Yo, Slim.
You see them two niggers right there? They over there getting high in the middle of all this.
Now where the fucking discipline at, yo? Fuck, toss them niggers.
Can I talk to you for a second? Don't you know not to stare at me like that? Yo.
I gotta show you something.
Pardon me, sweetie.
Yo, man.
You know I've been locked down, man.
You gonna love this.
Trust me.
Oh, OK.
Uhh-huh.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Shit, this ain't my little place down in Jessup.
But what the fuck is, right? This is all you, B.
All you, in your name too.
You know what I mean? This piece of paper right here make it legit.
Keys to the Navigator in the basement.
It's just a rental until you pick out something nice.
Damn, all this, huh? You did good.
We makin' so much straight money, man, we can carry shit like this out in the open, in our own names.
Yo, you remember when we used to sit on the top of 734 building, man, lookin' at the city, used to talk about what we gonna do? And you was all heavy into that black pride bullshit talking like you gonna get two grocery stores, make motherfuckers proud.
Sure was, man, you was out hunting on a AK-47 talking about "I'm gonna go get warrin'.
" Man.
We brothers, B.
Always, baby.
Always.
Just one more thing, though, man.
I don't mean to be picking with you, especially not after you did all this shit for me, but, look, man, I've been locked down.
You know what I mean? You know what? I gotta take this meet.
I'm gonna get at you.
Welcome home, man.
Hey, yo, it's me, man.
I left something.
Shit.
My man.

WMD.
Got that WMD.
You've got to move it on down.
It ain't pretty.
Doesn't have to be.
Just needs to pull them from the places worth salvaging.
All right, I told the other shifts, now I'm telling you.
When I ride my district at the end of this week, I want to see empty corners.
They bring it here or the other two free zones or you bang them senseless.
Anything you need to do, you do.
Up to a body that can't walk out of the emergency room I'll back you up.
You understand me? I've detailed our IID representative for the entire week.
Citizen complaints will be handled by Lieutenant Mello here.
Whatever it takes.
I ain't even dirty.
I got rights and shit.
Go with the one about staying silent.
Shit like this don't happen in Hamsterdam.
I'm up for just standing? Fuck y'all.
We in America! Uh-uh.
West Baltimore.
I swear to God, Officer Herc, you unhook Babycakes, my people will be where you want us, I swear to God.
If you fuck with a man's ride, you get his attention.
Babycakes? - Yo, yo, yo.
Hold up! That motherfucker's gonna hear from my lawyer.
This is some outrageous shit.
You think? Fuck you all, you lying motherfuckers! Gentlemen.
That is outrageous.
Come on, sweetheart.
Bust your ass outta here.
It's still Maryland but if y'all don't take that shit to Hamsterdam tomorrow, next time it's West Virginia.
That little star there across from the Dipper, that's north.
You wanna go the other way.
Assholes.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole WMD.
Got that WMD.
Landfill, got Landfill.
WMD.
Got that WMD.
They all here.
Landfill.
We'll start within the week so we need to readdress the budget.
Readdress how? The price of steel will triple if we don't buy it now.
Ain't the steel bought? - Not the bulk of it.
Gutting costs exceeded our expectations.
He needs to wear that hat when he's on site.
Code, you know.
The gutting costs went up? - Yes, due to the changes you asked for.
Necessitating new permits.
And more delay.
Unless we expedite, bring the architect back in over the weekend.
Ain't that part of his fee? - No, this was unanticipated.
Y'all fucked up so you take the hit, right? - Excuse me? My man knows shit about no gutting costs and no price of no steel.
He's just trying to get some shit built.
Y'all supposed to have the expertise.
Only it seems the expertise ain't where it should be.
Cost overruns are the nature of the business.
We should discuss this over lunch.
Hell no, I got elsewhere to be.
This Marlo kid is fresh blood.
Bell's given him the best real estate.
The Barksdale people took what they needed when the Towers came down.
Stringer hasn't missed a step.
He's still selling drugs? - Lot of drugs.
He's not dropping bodies? - He doesn't need to.
He has enough corners.
And I'm supposed to give a shit? - Two weeks, Bell looked insulated, like he had enough legitimate front to be the bank.
He's still involved.
Otherwise, why the face-to-face with the Stanfield kid? He's still connected to the day-to-day.
We come back in six, eight months, you won't even get him in a room talking drugs.
It's now or never, Lieutenant.
Stringer Bell is quiet.
If he's quiet, I don't give a fuck if we come back a year from now and find out he's on the Greater Baltimore committee.
This unit is about the bodies.
Major Foerster, call 2462.
Major Foerster.
What the fuck is this? Ten-page report on the heroic police work undertaken to retrieve Officer Dozerman's service weapon.
Send that upstairs, keep the bosses out of your ass for a while.
You actually did all this? Would it matter if I had? Jay, I'm a murder police.
I got a double on my plate.
I'm gonna work it.
We ain't got Fayette and Poppleton neither.
I'm working on it, man.
Then why ain't we at least got a shop set up down the block? - We did.
There was a setback.
Ran our boys off.
Who? - Just some player, man - Listen.
Let him tell me.
We hired him for muscle.
The boy, Marlo.
Marlo.
Who the fuck is Marlo? - Is he tied to one of the mobs? - Young boy.
Running it on his own, too.
Got maybe 15 spots along here and the avenue.
An independent with no support got all the prime real estate and we doin' what? A young boy ran us off the corner? I'm losing my motherfucking mind, man.
And I sincerely mean your girl no disrespect but Tosha wasn't killed because she just happened by that mess, right? She was a player.
We know that much.
We got the science that says she fired a gun.
The gun wasn't there for us to find but that just means somebody grabbed it up.
I mean, your girl, she definitely had her say when everybody else on that street was talking.
Am I wrong? I got witnesses that said she was in the middle of a drug robbery.
A boy by the name of Omar was in on it, too.
Nobody's saying Tosha was an angel.
Nobody's saying that.
But what are they saying? The crew Tosha was running with, maybe they didn't kill her, but if they don't tell me the true story, I guarantee they won't breathe a free breath until them cicadas come back.
Y'all get the word to the right people.
You've spoken to the medical examiner, correct? - He says it's lumpy.
Lumpy? For a credible scenario, he's willing to change the cause of death to homicide.
Do you even have a suspect here? Uh, no.
I don't know how you city guys do it but we try to duck a punch or two, not lean into every last one.
My county doesn't need another murder.
I'm glad you could come.
Ladies, Reverend Wright, I'd like you to meet my husband.
Not that I've seen.
She was invited, right? Of course.
Eunetta doesn't make it to much nowadays.
Not even council meetings.
I think Eunetta's gonna have her hands full, come the primary.
The Mayor will pull her through.
Does he still have coat-tails? - Shit, boy.
Look up "incumbent" in the dictionary and Clarence Royce will be smiling back at you.
He gets his ticket through.
The Mayor's got a new poll.
His negatives have really jumped in the last year.
Not that he'll be putting a press release out about that.
I hear you took a swipe at him on that witness murder.
Not at the mayor directly but we had the police brass in front of the subcommittee.
I don't know.
There's no excuse for what happened.
You keep on it.
A smack here and there does this administration a world of good.
That's why we need new blood on the council.
Keep everybody honest.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Give me a Coors Light.
Don't embarrass yourself.
So, your murder's never gonna be a murder - and Daniels' got his head in another case.
I know.
You know the hardest part about being a police? Explaining to your wife why she has to take antibiotics for your kidney infection.
I was gonna say trying to make the job matter.
That, too.
Speaking of your ex-wife, what's up there? - Nothing.
She's got her hooks in some lawyer.
Money guy.
Fuck it and fuck her.
So what, are you movin' on? Yeah, I might have some fresh hope.
Yeah? Yeah, there was this woman at this thing for my kids.
She raises money for the school and all that, you know? She's got a face, a body and a brain working together and she looks like she might tell me when my shit stinks, which is probably what I need.
She's kind of like Freamon with tits.
So what, did you get her number? - Nah, not exactly.
What kind of detective am I if I can't track a white woman in Baltimore? There you go.
You were so smooth tonight.
You had them eating right out of your hand.
It's what you need from me, right? Anyway, it wasn't too bad.
I'm getting better at it, I guess.
You are.
Cedric, maybe we could I don't know.
Right now, you tell me where you need me and whether you want the Class A or B uniform, and I'm there.
More than that, I just don't know.
So? So? I'm sayin', what the fuck? Take a deep breath, man.
I mean, take a long deep breath.
Know that if you call the shot, we at war.
I'm there like I always been.
The thing about turf, it ain't like it was.
I mean, you ain't gotta pay no price of buyin' no corners.
Since when do we buy corners? We take corners.
You gonna buy one way or another.
Whether it's with the bodies we lost or are gonna lose, time in the joint that's behind us or ahead of us.
You gonna get shit in this game, but ain't shit for free.
Uh-uh.
How many corners do we need? How much money can a nigger make? More than a nigger can spend.
We won't be around to spend what we done made.
Shit, I didn't think I was gonna be around this long.
Yeah.
Well, we here now.
We got every mob in town, East Side, West Side, ready to pull together, share that good shit that Prop Joe is putting out there.
If we get in the money game downtown, niggers ain't going to jail.
We past that run-and-gun shit.
We find us a package and we ain't gotta see nothing but bank.
Nothing but cash.
No corners, no territory.
We'll make so much goddamn straight money, if the government comes after us, there ain't shit they can say.
Businessmen, huh? Let the young 'uns worry about how to retail, where to wholesale.
Who gives a fuck who's standin' on what corner if we're taking that shit off the top, putting that shit to good use, making that shit work for us? We can run more than corners, B.
Period.
We could do like Little Willie back in the day with all that money and run this goddamn city.
Like businessmen.
Let me talk to Marlo, see if I can't smooth this shit out.
It ain't gonna be overnight 'cause the nigger only knows what he knows.
But I think I could talk some sense in his head.
I ain't no suit-wearin' businessman like you.
You know, I'm just a gangster, I suppose.
And I want my corners.
I gotta tell ya, I'm havin' a tough time wrapping my head around the reality of you being paroled.
I won't fully comprehend it until I'm sipping a Martini.
Homicide police went to Tosha's people, saying how they know she was in the mix.
Said they got witnesses and shit.
They called your name.
What did they say? - They called me.
I know this cop, man.
Yeah? Maybe we should help him out.
Tell him who did what.
Stop wilding, Kimmy.
I said I got this.
Tosha's people wanna know what happened.
Say she caught one taking them boys down.
Ain't no need to involve the police.
Sound to me like he involved already.
I told you, I got this.
My husband worked for Mr.
Cooper at the American Can.
He made good money.
We saved up and bought this house.
There were white families still living in the neighborhood then.
The neighborhood has changed.
This is a picture of the house.
Oh.
City-owned, taxes paid and all.
It is very nice.
But I can't afford that.
You don't have to worry.
It's all taken care of.
It's a special program we have.
It's for people who are living in really bad situations, you know, with the drug trafficking outside.
And this is a good neighborhood.
Mm-hm.
It's safe and it's on the number 19 line and it's walking distance from your church.
Officer, this is the only home I know.
It's all I've got.
Now, you say you have a program that can place me somewhere else but you ain't got no program for what's outside my door? You weren't lying.
Yeah.
I told you.
And I've been all over these blocks like you said.
I haven't seen any cameras, nobody peekin'.
Monk Man has been here for days and narcos haven't even blinked.
I'll tell you what.
Put some of my people on it.
Just them young 'uns.
Make the package real small, just in case this a trap.
I wanna hear directly from you on this.
I'm on it.
This shit is just bugged out.
String called, said to tell you he's gonna be late.
Are you telling me we're weak? - I reached out to Black Donnie.
OK, spit it out.
Stop fuckin' double-talkin' me.
Black Donnie ain't having any of it.
Says Brother Mouzone put a hex on all of us.
What about Peacock? Peacock hired out with some Dominicans.
What about Eggy Mule? Eggy locked up.
Caught a nickel with the Feds for a pistol.
What about Shorty Boyd? Shorty Boyd went and cleaned his whole act up.
Yeah, I know.
Fucked us all up.
What we got? The soldier you sent at us, Cutty, he gonna work out, but the rest of them dudes, I don't know.
Listen, big man, you're about to earn your fucking keep.
You get Cutty and the best of the rest and you put a hurtin' on Marlo.
I want my corners.
What the fuck? - What now? - Problems, Mr.
Bell.
This ain't the time for problems.
I got places to be.
We're being told it may take weeks to get these changes approved.
Weeks? - Meanwhile you lose money.
How does anybody make money in this game? Every time I think we're good, you back in my pockets.
You need to make a call.
Again? He's the consultant, right? You're paying him to consult, right? This is why we hire a politically connected guy.
He goes downtown and does for us what we can't do for ourselves.
Democracy in action, Mr.
Bell.
All right, me and Slim, we're gonna work through the alleys and hit 'em from the sides.
I want you to come through here.
Slow down, through the intersection.
Ohh.
If we come up this way, we ain't got to cross no intersection.
Come that way? You puttin' your driver in the line of fire, man.
Think on it.
He gettin' taken out.
Car gonna crash.
Where that put you at? You don't wanna be shootin' across your driver.
All right, come in easy.
We're gonna have their full attention.
And pick your targets, drop 'em and move out quick.
Who drivin'? - I'm under the wheel.
Slow down at the end and toss your weapons.
Get rid of any shell casings that kick back in the car.
Police could trace them.
Toss the gloves, too? - No, hold on to them.
They're gonna have that DNA shit all on 'em.
It's gonna take us some time to get set up so we need y'all to lay back four or five blocks.
When we ready, we're gonna get you on the burner.
But y'all hold tight till I call you.
You got it? We can handle our end.
You just make sure there's some fuckin' work left for us.
I don't wanna feel like some decoy.
Damn right about that.
It's just to relocate, no big deal.
I'm not asking for round-the-clock protection.
No big deal? Where the fuck am I gonna find a house for this old broad? I got one.
It's a foreclosure on the Harford Road.
All you gotta do is file the petition.
My boys'll move her in.
She's a witness against a violent drug crew.
Without her, it won't go forward.
She's 73 years old.
Brave old broad to be doing this, but Come on, Ray.
We just lost a witness in a drug case.
We don't wanna lose another one so quick.
If Rawls gets wind of this, you forged my signature.
Where's she living now? - Vincent Street, Sector Two.
That's a bad location? - You wouldn't believe it.
Wait for the call.
What if they've got lookouts? If we wait, it'll be over by the time we get there.
Plus, how's that gonna play with Avon, man? They takin' all the credit.
Yo, fellas, strap up.
There go that motherfucker Nay-Nay.
I say we take him.
We should wait for the call.
We wait, he gonna get away.
Go, go, go! Get out, get out! What the fuck? Didn't I say something about waiting for a fuckin' phone call? You know how you blow off half the invitations you get? - Ribbon cuttings, playground clean-ups? - No choice.
I got one to a fundraiser for the Delta Phis.
I drag my ass over to the Forum.
Who was there in his ironsides but Odell Watkins.
The rainmaker.
Talking in public about being disappointed in the mayor.
Disappointed.
Yeah? Like how? - Like sincerely disappointed.
The way you'd be with one of your kids.
He really wanted to see the mayor pressed.
Maybe somebody can take a run at Royce in next year's primary.
Like who? Madam Council President? - Mickey Pepper would give him a fight.
No, Mick won't risk it.
Well, you gotta have someone with balls.
And somebody black.
This being Baltimore an' all.
How many y'all take? - Two.
Didn't get nearly a shot off.
That speaks to the quality of Barksdale people.
He's gonna come back at you.
It ain't gonna stop at this.
I don't want it to stop.
Barksdale weak today.
And he ain't working with my ammunition.
No doubt you carryin' a full clip.
But when you're at the head of the table, once you there, you've got to hold it down.
Sound like one of them good problems.
Yeah.
Prison and graveyards, full of boys who wore the crown.
But they wore it.
It's my turn to wear it now.
We're gonna do this, right, Chris? - It's ready like yesterday, dawg.
Want a white T, man? Need to get yourself a white T, dawg.
So you working your plan, Bubs? - Dollar here, dollar there, Kima.
So why did you call? Are you still interested in that boy, Marlo? No? You wanna keep getting paid, you need to get your ass up to Park Heights where Kintel got them corners.
Kintel? My bosses don't give a fuck about Marlo.
Stringer neither.
That's too bad because now we've got a whole lot of drama.
What happened? - That young buck Marlo, he just dropped two of Barksdale's soldiers two hours past.
What? - Them corners is all jumpin' bad.
I thought Marlo had the corners with Stringer.
All I know is Marlo is flyin' his own colors.
West Side's about to be all Baghdad.
But y'all looking for whatshisname, Kintel.
Y'all are too fickle with Bubs, man.
I swear.
A little gift for you and your boys.
Call me.
Whitey sale! Whitey sale! Deputy, I am aware of the incident and my men are on it.
We called in the flex squad and my DEU is out canvassing.
And what do we know? It seems to be rival gangs.
What does homicide have? Fuck homicide.
I'm asking you for answers.
Sir, my men - And you have none.
My men are out there - What do we know that we can tell the man? - Rival gangs.
Which gangs? Gangs.
Assholes who don't like each other.
I'm sorry, Major, but we got nothing on it.
Play it.
It don't make me no never mind.
It's all about trumps.
Evening, Omar.
Evening, Bruiser.
Speaking of them trumps now.
Hey, everybody.
What's for dinner, Jen? I'm starving.
It's working.
Ow! - Hi, Daddy.
How are you doing, beautiful? Daddy, we shared with you.
That's nice.
Have you seen that tape I was watching? I don't know what you're talking about.
The videotape from last Monday night's council meeting.
Keiffer tried to block my resolution but I laid him out good.
I was in rare form.
You seen it? - Maybe you left it in the VCR? What? Son of a bitch! - Who the hell? - Franky shared his sandwich with you.
We hid it so no one else could eat it before you came home.
Can I get some chips and pickles with that, too? I don't wanna disrespect you.
String been good to me, you know? Not just my bills.
Him and Avon probably think they owe me that much.
Mmm-hmm.
And it ain't what people might be saying.
What they saying? It ain't like I don't miss Dee.
I do.
Yeah, well, I miss him, too.
But he's been gone a while now.
More than a year.
Stringer's fine.
No denying that.
I feel safe around him.
You asking to get with String, I'm OK with that.
I thought you was gonna be mad.
Uh-uh.
I mean, everything with Dee is so messed up, you know? I mean, every time I think about it And you know this one police, he came by here and brought it all up again.
Who did? - Police detective from the city.
The one that tried to turn Dee on Avon when he got pulled up in Jersey.
White boy? - Bushy hair? - Yeah.
What did he say? What did he say? He said maybe D'Angelo didn't take You know.
Take his own life.
He said maybe it was somethin' else.
And he came to you with that? Left his card here one day but I didn't say nothing to the man.
Just told Stringer, is all.
Hmm.
She's gonna run for Council? She is.
Probably win, too, if I know her.
And you're the proud husband? Not sure how that makes me feel.
It's just for show until the election next year.
A city police lieutenant looks good on her arm.
Who even cares anymore? Everyone's either separated or divorcing for the second time.
This is a favor.
For her.
It's hard to explain.
Look, I disappointed her.
For years she told herself I was tracked for deputy commissioner at worst, and past the police department, who knows? And there were some things that happened a long time ago.
I guess she wanted more out of me.
And after a lot of years and a lot of plans, it turns out I have a better head for police work than climbing the ladder.
She hung in there thinking my career was some big deal.
And I probably let her believe it just to keep peace.
Now she wants to be the big deal.
What do you want? I don't want to disappoint her anymore.
And right now I'm more help showing up at some dinner in my ring and dress blues than being the not-even-divorced-yet husband with the white woman on his arm.
I'm gonna do what I can to see she gets what she wants this time.
Nothing more.
Last seen Gerard was racin' bullets up on Fayette Street.
He appeared to be winning.
Till he shows up here, we ain't gonna know what happened.
I damn sure know one fuckin' thing.
Two of our people chalked.
The police are going be real heavy on this.
I say we take time to build our muscle.
I ain't got no more motherfucking time! When the word comes out about Marlo punking me, what am I gonna look like? I'm gonna do this myself! You just this minute got home.
They're gonna pull your parole.
Let me take care of this.
We was thinkin', we could hit at them ourselves.
That way there won't be no fuck-ups.
You two niggers get on it, man.
And get it right.
See how shit have to be handled? The game is the fuckin' game.
Period.
Same as it ever was.
I don't know though, man.
I mean I mean I was with one of our young 'uns on Vincent Street where they got the empty houses over there.
And they got crews over there twirling dope and coke like the shit was candy.
Kids with a lemonade stand down there.
The cops were standing round like that shit was legal.
I mean, every day.
Now, that shit was business.
What are you saying, man? What's up? Nothing, man.
Nothing at all.
Those are Stringer's people.
You wanted us to be about bodies.
We had this kid Marlo working for Stringer but he might be going to war for those corners.
Let me be clear.
This is no longer about Stringer Bell or Kintel fucking Williamson.
What is my rank, Detective Greggs? - My rank! - Lieutenant, sir.
What is my rank, Detective McNulty? If you can't remember that much, then you can go back to narcotics.
And you can go the hell to whatever unit will have you.
Now get the fuck out of my office.
Your message said you'd be here.
Still, I thought it'd be one of your minions who showed up in the flesh.
You called on some of my people's people.
I was just working.
Doing what a man is supposed to do.
I know you been busy.
Caught some talk from the men you rousted on the West Side.
That was about a gun that belonged to a police.
Yeah, caught some talk about that, too.
This here, it's about something else.
Girl by the name of Tosha who got her head blown off in a firefight.
If you're not here to cooperate, then why are you here? I could just pull up that other girl from your squad.
She ain't gonna talk to you.
Ain't nobody gonna talk to you.
I just came here to make that clear.
Ain't no thing because I already got an eyeball wit.
You do? I don't know about that.
Old Bruiser is blind from that fortified half the time.
You gonna have to dry him out just to get him on the stand.
Besides, he done had a change of heart to that story.
That's what I heard anyway.
You gonna have to call this one of them cost-of-doing-business things y'all police talk about all the time.
No taxpayers.
The way y'all look on things, ain't no victim to even speak on.
Bullshit.
No victim? I just came from Tosha's people.
All this death, you don't think that ripples out? You don't know what I'm talkin' about.
I was a few years ahead of you but I know you remember how the neighborhood was.
We had some bad boys for real.
Wasn't about guns so much as knowing what to do with your hands.
Those boys could really rag.
My father had me on the straight.
But like any young man, I wanted to be hard, too.
So I'd turn up at all the house parties where the tough boys hung.
Shit, they knew I wasn't one of them.
Them hard cases would say to me, "Go home, schoolboy, you don't belong here.
" Didn't realize at the time what they were doing for me.
As rough as that neighborhood could be, we had us a community.
Nobody, no victim, who didn't matter.
And now all we got is bodies.
And predatory motherfuckers like you.
And out where that girl fell, I saw kids acting like Omar, calling you by name, glorifying your ass.
Makes me sick, motherfucker, how far we done fell.
to get it done.
What the fuck are you saying? - It's how they do at Zoning and Permits.
They know you got a contractor and people sitting on they ass.
You're paying twice that every week.
Mmm-mmm.
20 gets you the permits.
Five is for me for bribing these motherfuckers.
I'm the one who got to risk walking up to these thieving bitches with cash in hand.
I'm telling you, String, the people running the city now, they make the last bunch look sanctified.
I mean, this is some shameful shit.
Permits come when? Monday.
Latest.
Mmm-hmm.
Spider bags! Green tops.
Spider bags! That's him, man.
The fool.
Yo, I know that nigger, man.
Yeah? - Owe me money, actually.
Yeah? She ain't saying it like that.
She saying it like she wants to get pregnant.
You all right? Damn! I opened up too early, man.
I stepped on your shot.
Come on, let's roll.
Hey, there go five-0 right there.
Yeah, I know.
It's nothin'.
Huh? Cops be lettin' niggers grind down here.
Get the fuck out of here, hoppers! - Get out of here.
Who are these little niggers? Hey, yo, what if they lock us up? I hope y'all got toothbrushes.
Otherwise you're gonna be using some other boy's brush or rubbing your teeth with your damn finger.
If you don't get locked up, you can keep an extra 20 each.
All right.
Who got that fire, baby? That fire.
WMD! Come on, Tommy, give it up already.
Look, Terri, you gotta do this for me.
Tell me why I should vote for you over Royce? Something is wrong in that city and I can fix it.
This guy? He don't give a shit about tackling the problems.
Crime is out of fucking control.
Last week, a kid witness in a drug case turns up shot dead.
I go to the mayor and Mr.
"Reform is more than the watchword of my administration" pats my ass, thanks me for my concern, shows me the door.
The end.
So, with crime as the issue, the great white father rides to the rescue against a black incumbent mayor in a city that's 65% black? - Black, white, green, people are pissed off.
How is this doable? One, I hear the mayor's got problems with key supporters.
Two, the police commissioner, Royce's own man, is telling me stuff about his fucked-up department.
And three, Tony Gray comes close to telling me he's thinking about a run for mayor.
That'd split the black vote.
You need a player who gives the black middle class permission to vote white.
You got one of those in your pocket? - Not many of those around.
Elijah? He ain't gonna save your skinny white ass.
What about Odell Watkins? It's funny you should mention him.
He's not too happy with the mayor.
I hear a new poll shows Royce's negatives are high.
You'd have to raise a load of dough.
He has to see it.
I know he sees it.
It's past that.
It's about us showing respect.
Fuck respect.
He ain't right.
No he ain't.
But with you on the other side of the argument, he'd rather be wrong.
Maybe if the word came down from on high, it might change his mind.
I mean, if your friend Bunny Colvin's up to his ass in bodies, I bet he'd take all the help he can get.
Not that you'd ever go behind anybody's back or anything like that.
Right? No way.
Two more murders yesterday.
Another three today, including a 14-year-old.
We're doing all we can.
You're at 260 for the year and it's barely October.
You promised me 275 or under.
I had that as a promise.
Sir - We see 300 before the New Year, and I'm not sure that I can justify a full term for you.
Now, I hate to say it, but there it is.
Barksdale's people and who? Marlo Stanfield.
He's the new kid.
We've been on him a couple weeks.
I thought Daniels' people were in the Northwest.
Your war's only gonna get worse, Major.
Northwest has been quiet for weeks.
You're willing to backdoor your lieutenant? You ain't changed, Jimmy.
Shit.
It's always about your case, huh? - Do what you can.
Keep my name out of it.
How did it go? - We got one of them two motherfuckers.
You come strolling in here all walking tall Man, we was blazing on them dudes.
You know what I'm saying? Just got in the heat, man.
It was like - Relax, man.
I already heard.
I'm not tweaking behind this.
That's one less motherfucker breathing since yesterday.
But I'm surprised at you.
Shit didn't get by you back when.
Wasn't my man's fault.
I unloaded on the young 'un too soon.
Gave him enough room to buck and run.
I fucked that shit up myself.
Hold on.
It's on me.
I had that kid in my sights, close enough to take off his Kangol and half his dome with it.
Couldn't squeeze the trigger.
Couldn't do it, man.
Why not? Wasn't in me, I guess.
You know, whatever it is in you that lets you flow like you flowing to do that thing, it ain't in me no more.
All right.
So you done soldiering but we could use you for what you've got in your head.
We're gonna put you on a corner - No, man.
I ain't making myself clear.
The game ain't in me no more.
None of it.
But you ain't done shit else so what are you gonna do? I don't know.
But it can't be this.
All right, then.
We straight.
See you.
See you.
B, he was a man in his time, you know? Yeah.
He a man today.
He a man.
Any idea what this is about? Lieutenant.
What's he got in his head? Here he is, Bunny.
Cedric Daniels to the rescue.
Man of the hour.

All quiet today? - Keeping it like that, boss.
We rule where we stand.
Police sitting on all corners over these parts.
Likely because we been dropping bodies.
Yeah, they do like that.
But some other nigger'll stop a bullet somewhere else and then they'll stand on the new spot.
Boy Marlo closed up shop.
Word is, he wholesaling his packages for now.
He don't got no crews out here at all? How about his avenue corners? Nigger give up quick, didn't he? I was just beginning to respect the little motherfucker for showing heart.
Listen.
When them police roll out, step in there and take my corners.
I'm on it, B.
Cheese steaks from Bill's.
Nah, I did that Tuesday, man.
Fuck it then, you pick.
No, fuck me.
What? - Mope in the truck.
What about him? Think I locked him up.
Yeah? - Yeah.
Avon what's-his-face? Big player from the projects.
He was the target on that detail I worked a couple of years back, the one I told you about.
Motherfucker's out already.
Why, what'd he pull? Six, eight years.
Who the fuck can remember? And he's out in two? Maybe I got the years wrong.
Point is, guy's an asshole.
Locked him up, is all.
Pit B from the market.
See, now you're thinking like police.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole Change in plan.
Bell, you recognize.
Second target is a Marlo Stanfield, who's warring with Bell for the West Side corners.
What about Kintel Williamson? - That case is on hold for now.
On hold? We just managed to ID the cellphones on two of his people.
Be that as it may - Why not take a few more weeks so we can put together what we got on Kintel? We send the case to grand jury and then start this West Side case.
Otherwise, we wasted more than - Change of target comes to us from the Commissioner and the Deputy Ops.
The department is trying to get the murder rate down by any means necessary.
Kintel was dropping bodies two months ago.
Today, it's the West Side that's got the bosses spinning.
I know y'all thought it was nothing for me to sit on that roof day after 90-degree day, dodging swarms of cicadas and shit but, damn, this is fucked up! And all the assets work I did on Kintel, his cars, his cash flow Just put that in a drawer? Someday, I wanna work for a real police department.
Just to see how the fuck they do it.
McNulty.
In my office.
Prez, can you run something out for me? - What? I need to know who rented this room in the downtown Hilton, Thursday before last.
Who rented the room? Address, credit card details, whatever you can pull.
How's it fit with the case? - It's hard to say just yet.
Hey, my man.
I'm done mowing.
So? I figured I'd use this to edge the weeds around the fence.
It's gas-powered.
Means I gotta prime it.
You ain't gotta school me but once.
Get some water before you go back.
All right.
You been going hard at it.
You keep showing up, I'll keep putting you on.
Good, 'cause I ain't got nothing else.
You walked back through them old doors, didn't you? - Tried to.
Yeah.
I had took you for gone.
Man, parole officers, employment agencies.
Shit, I just felt like I was an interruption to their lunch break.
No family? None besides my grandmother.
She put me up in her basement.
That's plenty to ask of the old girl right there.
You could use somebody to talk to besides your grandmoms.
What about them social worker types? I hooked up with one dude.
He was cool.
But I wasn't ready.
You look like you're ready now.
I mean, you found an ear to bend, you wouldn't have to talk to me.
Shit, I know you gonna get tired of looking at my ugly-ass grill.
Drink that too fast, you'll cramp up.
You're asking? - I am.
Lieutenant, I didn't Because I got no problem changing targets if that's what the bosses tell me to do.
Unless it's personal, like when Kima got shot, I don't care where we spend our time and money.
Bell, Williamson, whoever.
It's all just police work to me.
I understand that people above my pay grade have the right to make decisions.
And if they're wrong? - They're wrong.
And time will tell, won't it? Now, I'm asking you for the truth.
You went to Colvin behind my back.
I'd have gone to the devil himself.
Which way you were standing had nothing to do with it.
You piece of shit.
I did it 'cause it had to be done.
Just like it had to be done two years ago when we were first detailed.
Stringer was the target then, he's still the target now.
Lieutenant, you know, as bosses go, you're better than most, and I know you went out of your way to get me off that boat.
I know that, but now we're back on the right man.
Detective McNulty.
When the cuffs go on Stringer, you need to find a new home.
You're done in this unit.
Your count, right? Yeah, went almost to Richmond for this batch.
Yeah, I'm holding.
You did like we say, right? - Yeah.
Give him that.
We're gonna need another 60 more.
60 more? - You know how we do.
So don't be crying, Bernard.
You must have left something out.
No.
I got the Part Ones from every sector, every post.
We're down about 2%.
No, where exactly are we down? Larcenies and burglaries are steady.
But shootings and agg assaults are down.
Drug arrests too, but I guess that won't look so good.
I mean, where geographically are we down, in the district? Well, the posts near the designated drug zones are up, almost all of them.
That ain't pretty, but everywhere else it's down.
In some places as much as 4%.
Bosses gonna love you.
It's too soon to take any credit.
This might be, what you call that? A statistical aberration.
You ain't gonna tell them your experiment might be working? Not yet, no.
But I'll tell you what we are gonna do.
Starting next week, I want you to pull one car out of service in the quiet posts in every sector, all three shifts.
We're gonna take those nine guys and double up on the high crime posts.
If we handle less of it We ought to do better with the crime we got, right? - Can I get two Trac disposable phones? - They're on special.
Four for 180.
Just the two.
The late show out at Westview is 8:45.
We could make that if we don't make the whole damn run today.
Seems to me one phone is as good as the next.
Only a fool would drive all over the world when there ain't no need.
Keep on with that shit and I'll leave you here.
I don't trust no man on the road by hisself, okay? I'm not stupid.
Stupid-ass fucker.
Commissioner! How goes it? It went a lot better before the mayor's cabinet meeting.
He rip you? Says we need to finish under 300 for this year, regardless of how.
Now, I tried to tell - Erv, let me ask you.
Where do you guys stand on this witness assistance thing? What? Overhauling the Witness Assistance Program? Nobody from the mayor's office called you regarding witnesses getting killed? I got a call from Chief of Staff a week ago, yeah.
But all he said was I should try not to have any more witnesses get killed.
But overhauling the program? Unless someone spends more money, there's not a hell of a lot my people can do.
You haven't talked to the mayor directly on this? You're not gonna fuck me on this? As it is, I got the mayor's teeth in my ass.
Your name does not get mentioned.
Mayor didn't say a word to me.
Thanks.
is nothing.
This is DC's number one, WPGC 95.
5.
Where the fuck we at now? Just buy four or five.
Do it like that and it'll go twice as quick.
I want a Shrek Slurpee, Bernard, and some Krispy Kreme.
All this from one disposable cellphone? And a dead one too.
It was used by Marlo's people and picked up off the ground by Kima's CI.
Problem is it's just raw data.
We need to firm up what we know about Marlo's operation with surveillance and CI info.
On the other hand If we had a burner that we knew was used by one of Stringer's players we could use what we know about that organization to make connections.
Get us one good phone, we'll give you the network.
That's the good news.
And what's the bad? It's all historical.
We can give you the network no problem, but by then it's a week old and they've dumped their phones.
And how we get a wire up on that I haven't figured out yet.
Well, see that you do, Detective.
Yeah, you keep this job, I'm gonna gain some serious weight.
Just the two? - Just the two.
You never heard of buying in bulk? You could be saving them people money.
Better still, spending it on me.
Why you got a gun, Bernard? - You ain't heard? - Avon's home, so we tooling up.
You ain't the only one on parole.
You riding my last good nerve.
That ain't the only thing I can ride.
Just get me back to the interstate.
Big white bag, got the big white bag.
Which one is he again? - Broadus, street name of Bodie.
He used to be in the low-rises.
Had a tower later on.
Big white, got the big white.
How many more minutes you think he's got on that phone? - Fuck this, let's hit the bar.
Lester needs a phone, man.
No, there's an easier way.
I'll show you tomorrow.
Come on.
I'm buying.
Big white bag, got the big white bag.
She just wants me to be happy, you know? And I mean, I do the same for her when I can.
Like this thing with the police detective.
Brianna says she wants me to go downtown with her and I don't know, hear the man out about Dee.
I know there ain't nothing to it but she is all upset, you know? I tried to tell her what you told me.
But she say she wanna go down there and talk to him herself, I guess.
You told her about the cop? - What? About the detective.
What you told me, you told her? It's her son, right? Ain't she got a right to know what's going on? - Look, I just thought - What? Why the fuck you gonna get her all upset over some bullshit? A year later, everybody forgot about the shit, you go running your mouth about nothing? - String - And she gonna believe that too.
What moms is not gonna believe her son didn't kill hisself? She gonna take that shit, go half-crazy with it.
I just - You just what? Sorry! - When you tell her that? - About a week ago, I guess.
When is she gonna go see the cop? Think she gonna talk to a lawyer first, ask him how to play it.
Who, Levy? - I guess, whoever.
The lawyer.
Levy? - I guess.
You didn't ask that? And this fucking Royce just lets it slide.
I mean, I go to him, right? Not to make points, just to do the right thing.
What does he do but blow smoke up my ass? "I'm glad you came to us with this.
"I'll light a fire, don't you worry.
We gotta move on this.
" I never thought he'd have the balls to just fuck the dog on it.
And you were doing the right thing.
Fuck, yeah.
What? You went there hoping that Royce would disappoint.
You want to know that you're better.
If I lie down on this couch, do you charge by the hour? Thanks.
You're not naive.
Neither am I.
A man doesn't run for office without being a bit self-righteous.
Self-righteous? Me? - What are you gonna do now? - Call a reporter or two, rip the mayor, maybe on background, maybe go on the record.
Rip him now? With the primary next September? Tommy, no one's gonna remember a dead witness a year from now.
Better if you go to Royce, confront him, not angrily, give him a chance to explain or maybe take action.
If he does do something, then a problem got fixed and you can feel special for helping.
If he doesn't, you sit tight.
I don't know.
Maybe you document your meeting in a letter expressing your concern and regret.
Then you're set if the next witness gets killed.
Win-win.
Unless you're the witness.
I know, you're right.
But he's taking on a two-term incumbent.
It's all gonna be ugly from here.
All right.
Yeah, it's cool.
Need another 30 by Monday, all right? - All right.
Yeah.
Bitch, everything I say, you hear backwards.
Stupid motherfucker.
Got them Ts.
White and bright! - One for three, two for five.
Blue tops, got them blue tops! I got them Ts.
White, bright, one for three, two for five.
Rockefeller's right here.
This shit is right over here.
This shit is right.
I got this, man, $5.
New.
No, thank you, man.
It's only $5.
No, thank you.
Fuck you, then, man, fuck you.
Fuck you.
I got them I got them I got them Ts.
Red tops, red tops, got them red tops! Rockefeller, got some Rockefeller! Hey, seller man, what you got? Got the long white Ts for the young ones.
You ain't got candles? I'm looking to buy candles and toilet paper for the shit-bucket too.
You here tomorrow? - I can't leave.
I leave, somebody grab my stake.
I'll be back tomorrow.
Red tops, got them red tops.
Yo, Johnny.
What's up, Bubs? Shit, Johnny, man.
Just been chasing that pipe, you know? Shit's got me all digging and scratching in my arms.
You know, it's cool.
All right, come on, you need a break.
I'm serious, you need a break.
Come on.
No, man, look around you.
It's a soldier's paradise, man.
I'm a Viking, Bubs.
Are you a Viking? Fuck, not again.
You coming? - Major said to bring them down here.
He didn't say shit about playing nursemaid to a bunch of goddamn animals.
Rockefeller, boys.
Rockefeller.
Push it back.
Get back, push it back.
Should we cuff them, Sarge? - No, cut them loose.
The fuck we tell you about fighting down here? Only rule is no fighting, no cutting, no shooting! Y'all still fuck it up.
Next time you make me come down here, see if I don't call for a 10-38.
Just so you know, dickhead, that's an ambulance.
Break it up, break it up, break it up, break it up.
Did I wake the baby? - You would know if you did.
Nice of you to check in.
I went out after work to unwind.
Yeah, you look unwound.
Well I figured you had everything under control on the home front.
What the fuck is wrong with you? What's with the sarcasm? How come you can talk to everybody else but me? Do you really want to know? I'm listening.
I miss us.
Do not blame that baby.
Do not do it.
I'm not blaming anybody.
I didn't do this by myself.
We discussed it, all of it.
We talked about it, yeah.
But I didn't I didn't have as much to say about it as you.
And why not? - Because you You wanted this.
I just I didn't want to disappoint you on it.
I don't think I could be more disappointed than I am right now.
You need to go.
How much you got? Quiet overnight? Midnight shift had to toss a crew that was casing the place.
Other than that Too many damn children.
Why do you need lookouts and runners if it's legal? A lot of them have been cut loose by the dealers.
It's like one of those nature shows.
Mess with the environment, some species get fucked out of their habitat.
Did you just use the word "habitat"? I did.
Letting your lookouts go? - My runners too.
Shit, what's the point? Here you are making money hand over fist and you're too greedy to take care of your workforce.
I don't need them.
But they need you, right? When you couldn't work a corner except for touts and runners, it was cool to have them cut school and work out.
Okay, new tax initiative, my brother.
Say what? If you wanna sling in Hamsterdam after today, you and every other knucklehead got to kick in 100 a week.
So you trying to get paid? - Not me, not for me.
Get the cash up, I'll be back.
Green tops! Green tops! Got the green tops.
It ain't something I'm gonna go to jail for, right? It ain't nothin' like that? - That one? - No, it was more black than silver.
This one, I think.
I can see y'all got some real ugly shit planned for me.
I can see it.
You just bumped up against a clever police is all.
He gonna try to shame you with the dead girl or some mess about children looking up to Omar and his sawed-off.
All he can do, especially since you backed down what he had for a witness.
He working you with guilt, boy.
Yeah, but that fat man gave me a itch I can't scratch.
Everybody in this world does what they going to.
Me, you, the police.
Everybody in this world got their own place.
And a man in your line of work start worrying about how other people see you, playing to other people instead of to hisself, he gonna get dead.
I still feel like I owe something, Butch.
I had a uncle down Carolina, he dead now, but I remember he was grieving real hard, real hard over chasing his lady friend away.
So he put himself to punishment.
Took a knife to his little finger, then his ring finger.
With them all bloody on the table, he pulled up short.
For the rest of his life, I remember him saying, "The bitch wasn't worth more than a pinkie.
" Huh? But it was too late then.
You can try that if you got a mind.
I don't know, Butch.
A little something less dramatical.
You feel me? - Mm.
You told Brianna she could go downtown? D'Angelo's her son, how was I gonna stop her? There's no harm done if she keeps her mouth shut and just listens.
No, it's fucked up.
There ain't no call messing with Brianna with this bullshit.
What can you do? File a complaint against the detective or some shit.
Harassment? This is the same motherfucker that had Avon's case.
Same motherfucker that's coming at me in my print shop, talking shit, and now, he coming at Brianna with this bullshit? A complaint's not going to do anything.
And the fact is, if the cops say her son might not be a suicide, Brianna's gonna hear this out, regardless.
I suppose Avon should know about it, though.
Yeah, well, I'll handle that.
Not much slinging going on here.
Western boys are sitting on the real estate.
Yeah.
All right.
All right.
That'll work too.
All right.
Shamrock says we should take some of our people down to Hamsterdam and sell off there.
At least until these narcos roll up off some of these corners.
Come on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Come on.
Car stop, maybe? - Why not? - Hey, motherfucker.
Got it right here, yo! Get that pink top, yo.
Not yet, you fucking rodent! Y'all can't do this, man.
We headed to Hamsterdam.
You come off that car again, you headed to Bon Secours emergency room.
Officer, we got immunity from y'all.
We going to the free zone.
What the fuck's the free zone? Package for sale.
Why you think we was headed there in the first place? - Get down.
Headed where? - Hamsterdam.
Suck my dick! - Hey.
Y'all wanna see a wagon? - Fuck y'all! Will you shut the fuck up and cut this shit out now? Like you said.
That's your receipt.
rounded to two and a half for my gas money.
This repays me.
And the rest of this? Use it to pay them hoppers for the week.
Whether you use them or not, you pay this money out.
This shit is like unemployment insurance.
Every employer gotta pay in.
If I find out anybody been holding out, then he's back in the street getting his head busted.
The least you all can do is look after your own people a little bit.
What are you, a fucking communist? to Fayette, west of Vincent.
That's right around the corner from here.
10-4.
Units responding.
What the fuck happened? - Car stop.
I got a G-pack from beneath the passenger seat.
Yo, we was on our way to Hamsterdam.
The man say we don't get no hassle.
What's up? - What the fuck is Hamsterdam? - Lying-ass police! I can't let you do this.
Carv, they got a G-pack.
On the way to the free zone, they did.
And I was trying to tell these people - Just shut the fuck up.
to any unit at the scene at Fayette and Vincent.
Yeah, boss? - You got a situation there? - I can't believe this bullshit.
Bullshit is right.
I told you to shut the fuck up.
You gave us your fucking word! - This is some fucking bullshit.
Y'all some fucking liars.
Will you please tell me what the fuck is going on here? Major said he's on his way.
Carv? Oh, man - You sure that's the one? - Reesie say that was the one.
Who am I to say different? I ain't gonna pay till it proves itself.
I told him that already.
He say 1500 for his troubles.
Damn.
Conscience do cost.
on the beat.
I seen him.
You hadn't even gone past the damn door and he threw them papers in the trash.
You lying now, I could tell.
You is the only one who gives a fuck and if you hadn't been the stupidest motherfucker I ever gone out with you'd have bought a bunch of them at once.
I only need like six more.
We be done in like a half an hour.
How about we make one more stop, you get six of them shits and I suck your dick for the next 20 minutes.
Got you.
Oh, fuck.
Oh, fuck you all.
Shit, I worked a double, man.
Yeah, right.
Bunk, line three.
All right.
Tack it to the board, Mike, you know the rules.
Detective Moreland.
Heard you looking for something.
Let me get some Trac phones activated.
Eight of them bitches.
This one's for Sector Two.
Sector One, I'm using that empty low-rise housing on Winchester.
Sector Three, the old Koppers plant.
And it's legal to sell here? It's not legal.
We just look the other way is all.
How can you? I know it hurts your head to think about but before you decide to lose your mind, take a moment, ride around to my corners, my worst drug corners.
Edmondson and Brice.
North and Pulaski.
Hollins and Payson.
They're empty.
All of them.
District-wide, my crime is down 5%.
But do the bosses know? - No, the bosses don't know shit about it.
This is just a district commander taking initiative on his own.
Jesus Christ! I knew I'd bump into somebody from downtown about this.
And I know your natural impulse is to take what you saw back downtown with you.
But I got to ask you - You legalized drugs! Look, this is a tactical deployment.
We just wait for everything to get settled down in these three zones and then we move.
Look, we make a big show of locking everybody up and then we shut it down.
I'm sorry I had to fuck you up on that arrest.
I'm sorry you had to see me give that runt back the G-pack.
That was ugly, I know.
But I'm just trying to save what's left of my district any way I can, if I can.
The longer I have before I have to brief the bosses about this deployment We got all we needed from the car stop, Major.
Don't sweat it.
Let me get a word with my old commander.
I don't know, Major.
Whenever you bust this place up, they'll go back to their same corners.
Besides, you were never much on making a big show.
If this doesn't work, Jimmy, it's just back to usual.
I'm out the door on pension anyway.
Jimmy, I need more time.
I need to be able to rely on you and your people to keep this close.
Bosses don't know, huh? Fuck the bosses.
You the man who called? Mm-hm.
I did.
You witnessing or what? Uh-uh.
I'm afraid I'm blind.
Legally.
Something you need to see, though.
Glock.
40, I believe.
I suppose you ain't going to tell me who brought this here? Like I said, I'm blind.
I thought you might know, though.
Mm-hm.
You can tell him from me, I'm hoping he might need this in court some day.
Hmm.
Man, narcos might come back.
They might.
But until they do, this your corner to hold.
What about Marlo's crew? - Look, Avon's home and you on a Barksdale corner.
You feel me? - Avon ain't here now.
You got muscle.
Don't worry about that, little man.
Hey.
The burner of young Bodie Broadus.
And it still has minutes left.
Speed dial? Caroline.
You wouldn't have an extra room at your place, would you? Just for a night or two until I can get my shit together.
Ain't no fixing it? - It's fixed pretty good, I think.
Thanks.
Credit card was a business account listed to a Theresa D'Agostino.
Yeah, that's her.
What kind of business? Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
Billing on the card goes to a business address in northwest Washington.
I called the switchboard and she's listed.
D'Agostino doesn't sound much like a West Baltimore name to me.
Me either.
Truth is, I don't know what I want.
I know I'm looking for something but I can't even tell you what it is.
I understand you found work.
Ain't no payroll job, but it'll do.
You ain't here for a job or the GED program.
So you looking to join the church? I, um I just I've had this feeling for a long time and it's like I'm standing outside myself watching me do things I don't wanna do, you know? Just seeing me like I'm somebody else but never ever being able to stop the show.
I'm tired.
It's Cutty, right? No, man.
Dennis.
She's left? - She's out of the office.
I figured that, 'cause I'm supposed to meet her, actually.
Tonight, yeah.
Right, exactly.
I was going to take her to that, but I'm running late.
Her plans may have changed.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
Where is that exactly? I'm not real familiar with that part of It's on the corner of 15th Street and Okay.
Too many damn scheduling conflicts, unfortunately.
But we have put it on the agenda for the next meeting of the Coordinating Council on Criminal Justice.
You're sentencing it to committee? We're probably only talking a few hundred thousand to start.
I'm not saying we should give them new identities, send them to New Mexico like the Feds.
We need to get them out of harm's way.
I can't lay my hands on several hundred thousand dollars that's not already spoken for.
Mr.
Mayor, I was not - What would you have me do? Should I divert money already budgeted for snow removal this winter? Or how about I reduce trash pickup to once a week citywide, put the witnesses up at the Hyatt Inner Harbor? I'm not trying to be difficult.
Tommy, come on.
The city in the financial situation it's in? Very few friends in Annapolis.
We've done all we could do for now.
Okay, then.
Well, thanks for your time.
Gentlemen.
Ah, what the fuck.
I don't know, boss.
If there weren't so many kids down here I might be okay with it.
Baltimore police.
Baltimore? Baltimore, Maryland.
Can I get a Jameson? - Bushmills okay? - That's Protestant whiskey.
The price is right, ain't it? Make it neat.
Excuse me.
Hey.
Hey.
What are you doing here? - Just asking myself the same thing.
You drive here to look at me from across the room and then leave? - That's kind of creepy.
You looked occupied.
Him? Honey, that's just business.
This ain't my kind of crowd.
Definitely not.
Yeah, well, I made a mistake, so I better go.
428? - You live in this town.
Why book the room? - I live across town.
As late as these things go, that's a DUI away.
Give me two hours, McNulty? - What am I gonna do for two hours? Dream on it.
Water fresh? You keeping them cool? You got squeakers nesting squabs.
Taking care of the young 'uns.
I like seeing that.
Yeah, Marlo, he's real loyal.
I can't kick him off that nest.
This is good work.
This is really good work.
Police coming off them corners.
I seen.
Huh.
Gonna keep my name off the package for a time, gonna keep wholesaling.
You know, step back a bit.
Barksdale gonna think we weak, not coming out to claim what's ours.
The police leave them corners, he's gonna be back out there.
I know he will.
Your turn, girl.
It's about time.
For real.
Hm.
For starters, its memory holds the last ten calls made and received by the user.
That's enough to give us a signature.
Signature? The phone number's unique to an individual.
That way we can identify the user when he switches to another phone.
Sorry I'm late.
Woke up in the wrong town.
Anyway, we ran the tolls on those numbers and we came up with a rather interesting pattern.
This is the pattern of a closed communication network.
Something you'd expect from a drug organization.
This particular one so far involves And none of them lists subscriber information.
You can do that? - With this particular company, you don't need subscriber information.
Our data shows that over 92% of the calls were made within this network, with the average call lasting less than a minute.
Again, suggestive of drug trafficking.
Now, this user here, he serves as a clearing house.
He receives calls and initiates interactions.
He coordinates the show.
Nice if that was Stringer.
Now, this is the best part.
Prez discovered it when he was playing with it.
It has a speed dial feature.
Meaning, someone took the time to program the phone.
That's probably the only way these corner boys can remember the numbers, what with these phones being dumped every few days or so.
I'll bet all the other phones are set up the same way.
I've heard enough.
We should start writing for the wire.
When can we get up? - On what? They're dumping phones every couple of weeks.
By the time you get a wire up, the phones are dead.
The whole network shuts down simultaneously.
Do we have a plan? - Not yet, we don't.
If I could get a couple more of these dead phones, it'd help corroborate the theory for the affidavit.
Kima, maybe you could ask those Western boys to pick up what they find - for the next few days.
Yeah, sure.
Damn, boy, you smell like sex.
You didn't take a fucking shower? - I was late for work.
Forgot my Newports, didn't you? - Oh, shit, man, I did.
Let me do these chips and then I'll go get your cigarettes.
of this male.
We're gonna need 20-100 down here.
700 to KG.
I'm on my way.
Roger, 700.
Back so soon? I thought you guys had enough of our happy district yesterday.
Just need a favor.
Lester wants you to scoop up any discarded cellphones you find on Barksdale corners.
You want Barksdale's license plates.
Tag numbers and all? Whatever, sure.
I saw a big man riding in a truck the other day.
Missed the tags, but if I see him again - Stringer? - No, the other guy.
What other guy? Big boy, the one we locked up.
Avon.
Avon Barksdale? Jesus, Herc.
He's at Jessup, down for four or five at least.
What, we all look alike to you? - If you don't believe me, fuck it.
No fucking way.
But the fact remains, we would not be returning this service weapon to this officer without help from the citizens of Baltimore as well.
And on that note, I think our mayor would like to say a few words.
Thank you, Commissioner Burrell.
I just want to take this opportunity to commend our department on successfully resolving this case and to wish Officer Dozerman a speedy return to duty.
Officer Dozerman, the citizens want you to have this back and to thank you for your service in defense of our city.
And I especially want to thank all of our concerned residents who called in to the hotline.
We would not be here today - Lester.
Lieutenant, you gotta see this.
Big joke.

Got that reddies, son.
Two for one, two for one.
I got that Rasheed and Beno.
Rasheed and Beno.
Put some ice on his nuts.
Tried and true, that shit always bring a nigger back.
Where we gonna get ice from down here? - Walk him to Bon Secours and leave him.
I got that Rasheed and Beno! Two for one! - Um, can you give me an eight ball? - Eight ball? So, how you doing today? No offense, but can you just get the eight ball? - All right, all right.
Just being social.
Got it right here, yo! Thank you.
You hear Mack Man jewelers got took off last night? Got all this shit in the row house.
Down yonder.
Like a must-move situation.
15 on the dollar.
Y'all want some slamming ice, go inside and tell my man Rafik sent you.
Lighters, pipes, matches.
Pipes, lighters.
You need 'em, I got 'em.
Right here, pipes.
Reddies.
Two for one.
Ask me if it's loaded, bitch! Reddies, son, two for one.
Anything up? - Just a good package.
Three OD's.
Last one didn't look too good before the ambo came.
Fuck.
Shit.
Hey, this guy's a cop.
There's more inside, Carv.
Goddamn! Can't you ever get a fucking police around here when you need one? When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole Okay, on that burner? I called Trac, gave them the serial number.
Trac told me that they sent it to Northland, a purchasing corporation.
Northland tells me they sent it to their distribution center in Hagerstown.
Hagerstown tells me they sent it to Buddy's Mondo Mart at 1440 Propane Road, Falls Church, Virginia.
That's where it went out into the street.
What? Did Buddy have them on display to the left or the right of the cash register? How would I know that? All right.
As for the numbers in the phone's speed dial, we got one local number.
One that tracks to Bodie's grandmother's house on West Baltimore Street, and six other numbers that are all assigned to Trac disposable cellphones.
And those phones were all purchased outside the city.
One each in Catonsville, Laurel, Bethesda, and stores in Virginia, at Springfield, Dumfries and Lakeside.
Everything's along I-95, from here to almost Richmond.
They're driving 200 miles every couple of weeks out of sheer caution.
It's beautiful.
Yeah.
What is? Mm-hm.
The discipline of it.
Did you think you would ever again see Mount and Fayette like this? Those ain't touts you're hearing, brother.
Those are birds chirping.
How? I'll show you.
No whistles, no muscle, no flexing.
You supposed to be all over that shit.
You said it's supposed to be like the Valley of Eden.
To serve and protect, motherfuckers.
Poetic injustice.
I wanna file a report.
Say what? - You heard me.
You want to complain that you were selling drugs and someone took your money? Fuck, yes.
Here.
Fredericksburg? Going all that way to buy cellphones? One here, two there.
No wholesale purchases.
They've been dumping phones every two weeks or so and still they're worried about catching a wiretap.
Just 'cause you're paranoid doesn't mean someone's not out to get you, right? It'd be nice to know who's buying all those cellphones.
I'll drive.
Yo, yo, yo, yo - you up, old man? They do have a point though, right? We tell them to come here without the guns, and then we don't provide protection.
It's like the stickup crews have these hoppers feeling like they live in a lamb pen.
They see one more gun, Gandhi-world falls apart, this I guarantee.
So what are you doing about it? - I sent a few of the vics over with Herc.
Let them play with an Ident-A-Kit, but you know how that goes.
Can I be honest? It's not just the wolves circling the corral.
We got 50, 60 kids on the inside been fight or flight since they popped out the chute and right now they're just hanging.
All these ex-runners, ex-lookouts.
That shit worries me as much as any carnivores out there.
If you want to neutralize a threat, give it a job.
As? - Auxiliary cops.
Keep an eye out for the predators.
You got the dealers paying them to do nothing no-how anyway.
Kill two birds and all that.
Right.
Throw them some bikes, maybe police radios.
We could do that.
I was being You're serious? What in God's name did you do here? Hey, how you doing? We're looking for a guy who came in dropped cash on a couple of disposable phones.
Ten, 11 days ago? - Yeah.
Black, most likely.
That really narrows it down.
How about we just check some of your security tapes? From ten days ago? Unless there's an incident, we reuse those videotapes every week.
Every week? - It's Mondo Mart policy.
That went well.
Yeah? - Brianna Barksdale called.
Who? - D'Angelo Barksdale's mother.
You get her number? - You got a pen? - You got it? - All right.
You gonna call her? - I don't know.
It's all yours.
Thanks, Jay.
Check it out.
Mondo Mart, Mondo Mart, Mondo Mart, Mondo Mart.
We're fucked.
Until we get here.
BaBa Jani Food Mart, Dumfries, Virginia.
A hundred miles on the off chance this guy has a memory or a camera? Do you really wanna go home early and disappoint Lester Freamon? Who was that who rang? Guess who's calling Homicide looking for me on D'Angelo Barksdale? - His mama.
Yeah? Shit, I forgot I even tried to press that thing.
Now she's calling up asking questions.
Waste of her time as it was mine.
Kind of like this road trip.
He do look natural.
That motherfucker Marlo.
We gonna have to get deep on this nigger.
I mean, it feels like ain't shit changed except for a growing lightness in my wallet.
Where's my letter from the Preservation motherfuckers? - My right-of-way agreement? My sign-offs? - Hold on.
Everything's right around the corner.
We got both the plumbing and the electrical inspectors on for tomorrow, Tuesday, the fire department's coming and that should do it.
You'll be on your way.
And by the way, congratulations.
You are now a minority contractor for light bulb supply to the Board of Education, City of Baltimore.
What the fuck I know about light bulbs? Do you know how to put the words on a B&B letterhead? Come on, man, relax, white guy's doing all the work.
You're just his beard for the Empowerment grant.
That's an extra five Gs a month for just laying in the cut.
See how it work? I'm gonna bring you along, String, but it ain't gonna be an overnight thing.
We spend this year dealing with the city, the next doing business with the state.
However, year three then we go for the gold, then we go federal.
Then we see the man with his hand on the faucet.
What faucet? - The HUD faucet, the money faucet.
Look, I don't know why we got to wait three years for that shit.
I'm ready to run now.
No.
You're not.
I mean, forgive me but you still showing a little bit of that street corner mentality.
Bugging about every dime you spend, about the permits, about setting up a PAC, about dropping cash into re-election war chests, which, by the way, is how I get my gravy.
Look, it takes money to make money, otherwise, hell, every pauper'd be a king.
And I'm saying I'm ready to run now.
Three years.
Crawl, walk, and then run.
No, man, nappy up there a little bit more.
Yeah, yeah.
And the eyes - he had little beany eyes.
What the fuck is beany eyes? - You know, little rat eyes.
Yeah, all right.
Put a mole on there.
He didn't have a mole.
He did, too.
You was too busy shitting yourself with that whistle to your dome - to see the motherfucker.
Shit, the fuck I did.
How do you know how to do this? - Man, how you don't know how to do this? Make his ears stick out.
Why? - Cos I told you to.
Shit.
Okay.
Give him light eyes.
Why? - 'Cause I fucking told you to.
Okay, can you make them crossed? This is fucking cool.
Check out these knuckleheads on the Make-A-Face.
Bring that down.
I'm telling you - Fuck this shit.
that is not what this is about.
I'm just trying to make my district liveable.
I write off a few blocks in a few places, but I save the rest.
You're like the blind man and the elephant.
It's bigger than what you got your hand on, you can't see it.
See what? A great village of pain and you're the mayor.
Where's your drinking water? Where's your toilets, your heat, your electricity? Where's the needle truck, the condom distribution, the drug treatment intake? Half these people are dying and the other half's gonna catch what's killing them.
Look, they ain't no worse off than when they was all over the map.
Now they're just in one place, is all.
And that place is hell.
Look, I'm a police.
So I can lock a man up or I can move his ass off the corner.
Now, you want anything more than that, you're in the wrong shop.
Hey, yo, make her hair a little bit more straight.
Make it long.
With bangs.
Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
Now Chinese up them eyes, like Beyonce.
Get them cheekbones up a little bit.
No, she's looking like a pie tin with hair.
Hang on.
Yeah, all right.
Pillow those lips a little bit.
Yeah, hook me up with that.
You got one of these does asses? - What? - Yeah, that's what's up.
Hey, guys.
How you doing? We're looking for a cash purchase in here.
Maybe a couple of Trac phones.
Week or so back.
Black guy.
Sure, that guy.
Every two weeks for him.
Last time, eight phones.
Almost $900.
That's a lot of Ring Dings, no? - Ring Dings? - A joke.
You got some kind of transaction record? Seek and you shall find.
Hang on.
Hang on $927.
24.
Can we have the tape for that day? - No tape.
I rewind every day.
Keep this? - Sure.
What the fuck do we do now? Buy this guy a box of videotape? Or camp out in this shithole for a week, hoping our boy runs the same route? I just know I got to put my mind on something or I'm gonna slide back.
Need to be in control of myself, you know what I'm saying? - Take command of your life.
Something.
Cultivate some self-discipline.
Or whatever.
What if I told you that there's a certain liberation, not in command or in self-control, but in surrendering? Well, that depends on who you surrendering to.
Oh, that.
All due respect, you can stow that patter right here and now.
Look, it ain't about me doing for me, I don't think.
Might need to be about more than that.
So you're bringing in an overall decline of 2% for the month but almost half of that's coming from an 8% drop in the Western District? Major Colvin is himself willing to acknowledge the possibility of a statistical variation from the mean in his monthly stats.
Variation, huh? If I look through the Western incident reports am I likely to find less crime or more incidents which have been downgraded or unfounded? Because this kind of variation screams manipulation to me, and if I'm wrong, if indeed there is no manipulation, what has Major Colvin learned about police work that eludes the rest of your commanders? Councilman, I assure you, these stats are not massaged.
We don't do that.
I don't do that.
And I won't allow my people to do that.
Our feeling is that it's genuinely an aberration.
And if it repeats itself next month, then it bears closer examination.
Otherwise Moving on, then.
How are we fixed for witness assistance? Does the department have sufficient funds to ensure security for any endangered witnesses? We have the resources that the city can afford, I'm sure.
I understand you can't criticize the mayor.
Nor would I.
Nor would you.
So allow me to ask the question.
What is this city willing to pay for ordinary people to come down to the courthouse and perform the civic duty of bearing witness against gangsters and criminals? What resources are commensurate with that kind of commitment? You can play the good soldier if you want, but I want to go on the record in saying that this administration has passed the buck time and again and failed to protect citizens who demonstrate that kind of commitment and put their lives and livelihood at risk.
I would like to add that I feel as my colleague does.
This administration has failed this community.
Miserably.
And we need to do something about this.
Come on.
Hey! Hey, hey, hey! Take him, man, you got him.
Y'all are friends.
You're like brothers.
You lose that, you lose every damn thing.
Go on.
Kids messed up the good hoop.
Now they got one looks like the original peach basket and they hanging onto it like a tit.
I don't know.
Maybe I should get up some kind of tournament.
You play basketball? Never was much for balls and sticks.
I was always about my hands.
Boxer? - Yeah.
Boxing? I know a place where some of the kids go but - it ain't near close enough to here.
I wouldn't mind taking a look at it.
Get a mental picture at least.
What the hell's going on here? Police pushed all the action down here.
The deacon thinks maybe some people should come in here and take over the situation.
Are you that people? - One of them, maybe.
Roman, man.
Dennis.
You should lay back on this one.
Let me go talk to Buford Pusser in there alone.
Excuse me? And what it shows people is that I know my business.
That I will hold people accountable based on the facts.
It's about what's right.
There you go again.
What? Do you think politics is only about winning the argument? That whoever has the right fact at the right moment wins? Clinton had facts.
Kennedy had facts.
Yeah, but Reagan? He couldn't summon a fact to save his life.
It's not just facts, it's how you use them.
When you get hold of a fact you go smart-ass and start beating on people.
That's - Clinton and Reagan when they got up to speak, they gave everyone in the room comfort and confidence.
You liked those guys.
You were happy to think that they even liked you.
You're saying I'm not likable? Jen? When you're at home talking with me, not the Council, not the cameras, you're great.
When you tell me what's really important to you, I believe.
You're smart, and you're ambitious, and you've got a sharper tongue than most.
You can hold court, tell a good story, and you can win the argument if you want.
All of that shows, Tommy.
And at a City Council meeting, it shows well.
But if you want to be mayor, or senator, or governor one day Show 'em something more.
Baltimore? Went up there to the Harbor with my wife for our anniversary.
Charged us $12 for two beers.
Shit, that's the least of it.
The whole damn town's going to hell in a handbasket.
And guess who's running the show? - Who? Who do you think? The department, City Hall, the courts.
Shit, the courts? You know what they call it when judge, jury and perp all go to the same family barbecue? - Catch and release.
No shit.
God have mercy on any poor white boy going to trial.
Then everybody's got their ass in the air talking about justice.
Can't wait to throw away the key.
I mean, they're not all so bad.
Actually, there's a lot of good ones.
I'm on the radio if you need me.
My wife, Carol-Ann.
Some very good ones.
Is there anything specific I can help you with while you're down here? Or is this just a courtesy call? You know, you should meet my partner.
You'd like her.
Can't go through the front on this boy.
So I'm thinking we're gonna have to creep around the back.
Get Devonne on it.
Oh, I got this for that other problem.
Huh? - Who this? - Remember Fatface Rick, right? Been going to meetings with String.
That's his cousin, Trina.
You mean Trina with the big old ass.
Yeah, you on it.
That's her work number.
You know where she working at nowadays? She over at the Department of Social Services.
So you think Omar getting a check? No, not now.
But, I mean, once upon a time before some fool gave little Omar Little a shotgun, cocksucker was somebody's child, right? So somewhere down in them records is one or two names of Omar's people, you feel me? You sure you want us on Marlo and Omar both? I mean, Omar ain't come back on us since we got his bitch.
So maybe - Look, I'm home, Charles.
I'm home.
What's up? - Taking care of business, String? Me too, man.
Me, too.
East Side wasn't ready for us? - That's what I'm saying.
Yeah, I know all about BaBa Jani and his 24-hour turnover.
It's a real pain in my ass, too.
He's got a problem with the school kids.
Every afternoon they go in there, crowd him at the counter, boost all the car and gun magazines.
That surveillance tape's so grainy it's like watching buffalo in a snowstorm.
But my insurance man, Bob, I got him to turn this camera here right on BaBa's parking lot.
Now, any time I have a real problem, I just come to Bob and pull his tape.
I can get a copy of that for you in the morning.
Your partner there.
Bit of an asshole.
For real? - Yeah.
Good, good, good! That's it! Work! Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Go to your right.
One, two, three! Yeah, right hand up.
You know what this is? It's moral midgetry.
Turn the fucking world upside down and treat these braindead corner yos like princelings.
You see how clean the corners are? Street traffic is half what it was.
Fuck that.
It's wrong, and it's wrong.
Because the other way we were doing so well.
Colvin's answer is what? Ride shotgun for hoppers? Drown them in cash money? Colvin? He's always been good police.
Then he's got to know what a heartbreaker it is to suit up for this shit.
He's got to suit up too, man.
Somebody should dime the brass about this shit.
Or the Sun papers.
Let me ask you something.
Anybody here get jammed up and not have Colvin go to the wall for you? The man is trying something.
It may be hard to stomach, but it's working.
After 30 years, he's earned the right to some elbow room.
What the fuck.
This thing is on borrowed time, anyhow.
And when we do decide to jump on Hamsterdams they're just gonna go back to their regular corners, right? If we ever jump out on it.
I don't know that we're gonna.
All I'm saying is let's give the guy the same backup he's always given us.
That's all I'm saying.
I swear, as soon as the sun comes up, we grab that damn tape and go.
This place makes me want to cry.
I spent half my marriage in rooms like this.
How could you do it? What? - Go nonstop hound on your ex like that.
It's easy.
Just tell her I was on the road working an extradition.
Lots of extraditions.
Brought back something like 500 fugitives in a three-year period, I think.
That's not what I meant.
Right.
So, you're back in the house? Ate some shit and she took me back, yeah.
I ain't sure I even want to be back, though.
Extraditions, huh? - Cheryl would see right through that shit.
No, it's easy.
You keep your cell off, make sure she can reach your partner.
Partner tells her, "Kima's in court" or whatever.
Partner calls you, gives you the heads up, you call her back later like, "Hey, what's up?" Ain't even got a quarter box for the Magic Fingers.
Maybe you don't need a quarter box for that.
For what? Magic fingers.
You know me.
with a singer-songwriter who's burnin' up the charts with a hit that he'll perform for us tonight - You hustling? - Educating.
Are you charging for it or tuition-free? Tuition will come back to him tenfold in acquired wisdom.
Besides, nothing in the world's more expensive than "free.
" That's all she wrote.
Let's double it.
I don't like taking money from a churchgoing man.
Triple it.
Your break, Deacon.
We need to talk some more about Hamsterdam.
Look, I never said it was pretty.
Pretty doesn't even come close to the problem.
We need to talk.
I've got a COMSTAT meeting.
I'll drop by later on.
So we good with the permits? - Yeah, this week, so far, so good.
All right.
Look at you.
Who? - Chunky Coates.
Who's that? - You don't know Chunky? He's got the properties down the block and over on Paca Street.
He used to have an office so small you had to leave the room to change your mind.
Then two years ago he started running with your man, Clay Davis.
Look at you now, you big sassy bitch.
That better? - Mm-hm.
Hey, Special Agent Fitzhugh, if that is in fact your real name.
FBI in on this? I am only loved for my toys.
Lester called and I delivered.
You got the tape? Date of 10/10/04.
15:04 hours, 30 seconds by the register tape.
Mama Barksdale? D'Angelo's mother.
She cold-called McNulty about her son on the jailhouse hanging.
She's calling us on that weak shit? Is this, er, Brianna? Right.
You called about your son.
I'm returning that message.
Uh-oh.
Nothing there.
It's so tiny.
No mere mortal can Ohh You see what he just did? What? He did it again.
Who is this man? Where does he come from? Can anybody stop him? Please don't hurt us, please.
My eyes! My eyes! It's so big and clear and bright.
I'll be at Homicide.
Sometimes you still scare me, you know that? In my world, do you have any idea what I had to do to get where I am today? Now, when I say I'm ready, you best believe it.
Through the effective use of resources, and increased police presence and an intensive reach-out into the community, we've had a significant impact on these areas to the effect of a 12% decrease overall.
12%? - Cumulatively.
Over four weeks.
Major, I know I gave you shit when your stats took a jump a few weeks back, but now you're gonna shove the numbers right up my ass? It's kind of pouty of you, isn't it? I ain't cooking them now.
I already got the City Council asking questions about the 8% drop you posted last week.
We just want to please the mayor, not go to jail behind this shit.
Sometimes the gods do listen, sir.
Not in the Western, they don't.
Lieutenant Daniels? - Sir? - You want to take credit for any of this? Your unit's been working in that district a couple of weeks.
We're barely up on anything.
In fact, the crews we're looking at are still beefing, still dropping bodies.
Amazing.
Crime is down and no one wants to take any credit.
What is wrong with this picture? You don't mind if I have Planning and Research pull all your CC numbers? Make sure there's not a decimal point missing.
Pull everything, Deputy.
That number will stand.
I called because I heard you went and visited Donette.
Told her my son's death couldn't have been no suicide.
Is that right? I did do that.
D'Angelo hung himself.
Not with the belt they found around his neck.
Not at that distance between the doorknob and the floor.
So what are you saying? - What am I saying? - No.
Nobody would've dared.
My brother, his uncle, would have - I agree with you.
Nobody would've dared.
Unless - Avon and Dee was family.
Family, right.
This is just you talking, right? - I mean, anyone else saying it? - No, just me.
No one else cares.
Right.
It's just, I don't know, on the inside if somebody's going after you, has got a beef, sees red, they use a shank.
It's quick and it's over.
D'Angelo was strangled, which is planned.
You need the time, you need the isolation.
I'm sorry I brought this whole mess up, 'cause frankly, no one's gonna do shit about it anyhow.
Whoever killed him wanted to pass it off as a suicide and the cops are happy to have one less murder to investigate.
The Anne Arundel State's Attorney doesn't give a fuck.
I'm not supposed to give a fuck, so I guess your son just got squeezed between the sides.
Squeezed between what sides? Look, two years ago, we hung more wire on your brother's crew than AT&T and D'Angelo was this close to flipping, giving up everybody, everything.
But you know all that, right? You went down that detention center and talked your son out of a deal.
I kind of liked your son, you know? All things considered, he was a pretty decent kid.
And it grinds me that no one ever spoke up for him.
Seems to me that nobody ever will.
But, mostly at this point, I'm sorry I bothered his girl and I'm sorry she bothered you.
Why go to her? - Why not come to me first? - Honestly? I was looking for somebody who cared about the kid.
I mean, like I said, you were the one who made him take the years, right? Red leader to red boys.
Red two come in.
Cheese Steak has a problem, bitch.
Save me some fries, yo.
You want fries? I suggest you bring some cash up here.
Can you believe this? No muscle, it's all out in the open.
No, no, no, man.
This right here, boy.
This too good.
This some kind of full-tilt setup, man, to catch a master scoundrel.
Capone and whatnot.
They probably got police behind every window.
Hit this? You must be tripping.
Home, James.
Boy, you better keep your head back in the game or you gonna land us both in the pokey.
What you looking at? - You.
Yeah? I like your eyes.
They're like cat eyes.
Who you here with? - Them.
That's it? What kind of cat? - What? - What kind of cat are my eyes like? A big cat.
You here with them and no one else? - I said that.
You wanna dance? - Hell, no.
You want a drink? - No, I don't do that neither.
What do you do? Gene, this spot I'm telling you about? We're talking TB, HIV, syphilis herpes, lice.
It's like a five-acre Petri dish.
You get in there now, you can run every health program or social program you want.
Hell, every kind of liberal-ass project never got off the page it was written on.
Jurassic Park.
So this is a sanctioned open-air drug market.
No, it's not officially sanctioned.
It's more like it's tolerated.
That's why we came to you and the Public Health School not the City Health Department.
Needle exchange, drug outreach, condoms, HIV testing.
You're never gonna reach more people in the same spot.
If the city doesn't know, that makes it - Complicated.
That means temporary.
You move it or you lose it, boss.
That was nice.
It worked for me.
You free tomorrow? - Tomorrow? You could come back to my crib.
Nobody's there but my grandma.
Get us a real bed.
Take some time with it.
Give me your number.
The reason I'm saying tomorrow, not to push, but day after that I gotta go visit my aunt in Florida.
We hook up tomorrow, I got something real nice to think about on that long-ass bus ride.
After you.
What was it again? - Devonne.
This guy's running his route every five days.
That's a shitload of burners.
I don't get it.
They were so careful spreading out purchases up and down the three states, you'd think they'd also switch up rental agencies.
Maybe the guy felt bad for us.
You got a copier, right? Damn, girl, what, you lose some weight? - Excuse me? - It's just a compliment.
Yo, that's Mrs.
Omar? Yeah, his grandmoms.
So what, we jack her and make her talk? Fool, she probably got no clue where he lay his head.
No, man, we sit and we wait, right? Man, wait on what? Stupid motherfucker.
Now, see, if we go upstairs, we'll spook him.
So he's coming down.
All right? Uh-uh.
Russell Bell.
I know B&B like I know a thousand other outfits, but I don't know him.
Why should I talk to him? Because Russell's a good man.
And he's ready to run.
Then let him run for you.
Hang on.
Wait a minute, partner.
I don't think you know who you're dealing with here.
You know who that is? Have a nice day.
Got your running shoes on? You're in.
That's the faucet? As far as the federal money's concerned, he's everything.
The faucet, the goose.
What goose? - The one that lays them golden eggs.
Madison Square Garden it ain't.
But it could work.
You're gonna need a little help with the cleanup.
I'll piece that together.
This my trip, man.
Need to go from A to B all by myself.
am I likely to find less crime, or more incidents that have been downgraded or unfounded? Because this kind of variation screams Slow your words.
Try to lock your eyes on whoever you talk to.
Make them think they matter.
Use open, warm phrases.
Nothing sharp, nothing that bites.
Where's the fun in that? - Do you want this? Does the department have sufficient funds to ensure security for any endangered witnesses? What is this city willing to pay to make it possible for ordinary - It's me.
Hey.
How you, Cat Eyes? - When you leaving? - Tomorrow.
Wanna get together tonight? - Yeah, we could hook up tonight.
How about coming over to my crib? - No, not your crib.
Where then? - Go to a motel.
You want me to meet you? Which one? I don't know which one.
I'll tell you when I see you.
I'd like to see you soon.
All right, you know Lake Trout? - Carry-Out? Where? - On Woodland.
Off Reisterstown Road? - That one.
Later this afternoon? - I'll be there.
What time you want to meet? - Like five.
And five mean five.
I don't truck CP Time.
Five and change, I'm gone.
I ain't gonna be late.
All right, then.
See you then.
What you think about that? I don't know.
Might be walking into something a little later.
So I'm gonna need for you to go up there and get me a read upfront.
Where's my brother? - Shut the door, man.
Yo, we at war right now, sis.
So he on that.
I need to get with him.
He ain't on the cellphone.
Soon as I speak to him, I'll get him to you, all right? I can't believe this shit.
Heard from this cop.
He's saying Dee was murdered.
Oh That'd be McNulty.
How you know? Well, Levy figured he couldn't talk you out of the meet but I sure wish he tried.
I need to get with my brother.
Come on.
This fucking cop.
He trying to drive a wedge up in here, man.
You can't see it? I can imagine how hard it is for a mother to have to deal with some shit like that, but the fact is these places, they press on niggers.
Dee just figured a way to get out of there early.
Ain't nothing nobody can do about that.
I mean, how do you protect a man from himself? Where Avon at? I'll go to him.
We beefing for corners right now.
As soon as I speak to him, I'll get him to you, I promise.
A cop shouldn't mess with a mother's pain.
No one should.
Mm-mm.
Yeah, let me get four trout on white, extra mayo on one, hot sauce on two and the other with ketchup.
And four orange sodas.
This clown-ass nigger went and got four sandwiches and four sodas, man.
You heard me? - Cool.
Niggers don't roll out in a few minutes, we on to something.
Drop one, get one! - No, baby, this one's sentimental.
Here, it's bleach.
Soak your works and you're good to go.
Thank you.
Drop one, get one! Have you ever been tested before? Drop one, get one! Get the other girls to come by.
You have a cough that hangs on? Oh, wait.
Just pass these out for me, okay? - How's your appetite? - Two for one here! I just rolled for peanut butter.
You got anything else? - The fuck I look like to you, Chef Boyardee? - Who? When all this bullshit falls apart, I'm gonna kick your butt! Go by them slow.
Oh, shit! Oh, my God! - You hit? - No.
Drive, motherfucker, get out of here! Get down! God damn! Now your man better be as good as his word.
Or your word.
If you are still in possession of that kind of mentality then you are definitely not ready.
String - Not now.
It's Avon.
Shut the door.
Let's do it.
I'll be in touch, partner.
What is it? - Avon's been hit.
Where? - In the shoulder.
Tater got killed.
Avon still breathing, man.
But Brianna all over me, calling me, man.
I need to tell her.
Fuck Brianna.
What? Just keep the bitch away from me, you hear me? If you put them pit bull-style stitches in me, the next patient gonna be you.
For real.
What, you don't like rawhide? Marlo! We finna get back to old times, baby.
Hey, Anthony.
Where you at? First floor, 1034 North Mount, sir.
Good.
They're expecting us to hit back wild.
That's what they're waiting for, but we gonna sit back on it for a while.
Let them sweat.
Yo, we got to talk.
Hold on.
He got to come out on his corners, that's how he make money, right? - We gonna see who got the bigger war chest.
Avon? - Straight to the mattresses.
Whatever.
What you want, man? - "War," man, we past this bullshit.
Yeah, I forgot.
You know, I knew I forgot something.
We the Trump brothers.
Man, you don't give this shit up, you're gonna turn everything we built to shit.
The Chump brothers.
You know the difference between me and you? I bleed red, you bleed green.
What you been building for us? You know what, I look at you, you know what I see? I see a man without a country.
Not hard enough for this right here.
And maybe, just maybe, - not smart enough for them out there.
Not hard enough? No offense, but I don't think you ever really were.
You got skills, yeah, no doubt, but - What? What, 'cause I don't shoot up a block, indiscriminate, I ain't hard enough? Because I think before I snatch a life, I ain't into this bullshit? Snatch a life? What life you snatch? You know, Brianna went downtown, man, saw that detective.
Man stoking her head saying that D'Angelo's death was no suicide.
Yeah, so? The man ain't wrong about that.
What? Yeah.
I knew you couldn't do it and Brianna wouldn't do that shit.
But there go a life that had to be snatched, Avon.
I took that shit off you, and put it on me because that motherfucker was out of pocket.
He flip, they got you and me and fucking Brianna! No fucking way, man.
Hell no! Now, I know you're family.
You loved that nigger.
But that "blood is thicker than water" bullshit, take that shit somewhere else! That motherfucker would have taken down the whole fucking show starting with you, killer! He was fucking everything and everybody! Let me up.
Let me up.
Shit.

Hello.
Hey, what are you doing? Oh, hi.
Are you sleeping? - No.
You're not happy to hear from me.
No, I'm glad you called.
I wanna see you.
What, now? - Yes, now.
Where are you? - Same place as before.
Peabody.
Are you sure you're not sleeping? - No, no, I was up.
You liar.
Come on, get your ass over here.
Yeah, OK.
I mean, yeah, what the hell.
Room 210.
Fine.
Sean, Seanie.
What? I have to go out and see a friend for a little bit.
I'll be gone for an hour or two, OK? I put my cell phone on this slip of paper.
I'll put it on that top shelf, OK? Mm.
What did I just say? You're going out to see a friend and your number's on the top shelf.
Attaboy.
The Kerry camp had an early opportunity to capitalize on the economy as an issue.
The pre-election polls show that a significant number of undecided and persuadable voters thought Kerry over Bush offered a better chance for jobs.
Jobs may be a marginal issue in some of the Rust Belt battleground states.
But, ultimately, this was a referendum on the leadership of George W.
Bush on the war against terror and the war in Iraq You're so full of shit.
Nothing mattered in the red states but the economy.
I've been saying that for months.
Hey, I'm not tossing you so quick tonight.
I got nothing to do tomorrow.
Well, I'm tossing myself.
I gotta get home.
You know, uh, not that this wasn't fun, but it might be nice to have dinner first, dinner and a movie.
I got to Baltimore late.
No, I'm saying next time.
We talk some, then we fuck our brains out.
It's different for girls like me.
Aw.
You need to be cuddled, McNulty? No, but we make a date, I don't feel like I have to charge by the hour.
A date, huh? I'll call you.
In the daytime.
I think we can all agree that foreign policy and with Meanwhile, the US was reeling from the attack on Pearl Harbor wonders of wood carving He wrapped himself in the American flag at the convention and never looked back.
Why, that's a little harsh, don't you think? - No, I don't.
I'm serious.
And I think it was great strategy by his handlers too.
You don't think John Kerry, in his acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention said, "I'm here under old glory" that he wasn't trying to wrap himself in the flag too? No, I don't think he was trying to wrap himself in it.
I think he was trying to defend the people in the battleground states I've been a  1942, the US 1st Marine Division stormed the shore at Guadalcanal, seizing a nearly complete airfield at Lunga Point, which was renamed Henderson Field, and an anchorage at nearby Tulagi that would later be known as Iron Bottom Sound because of the ships sunk there in battle.
The landings of the first day put nearly 11,000 Marines on the island When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole Oiga, hermano, venga, aydeme aqu.
Deep into it, I see.
Yeah, we gettin' there.
You lookin' correct.
Sunday morning.
I'm on my way to hear the Word, you know.
Gracias, amigos.
You paying those guys out of pocket? - Mm-hm.
Boiler in there's working and the pipes are OK.
I should have it all cleaned out by tomorrow, I think.
All you gonna need is the permits.
Chamo, hermano, tienes que dejar - Permits? - Yeah.
Permits.
Yo, was that him? Shit.
If it ain't, we'd only be wasting a bullet.
Only problem is it being Sunday morning and all, you know.
I love the way you - Who are you calling? - Slim Charles, man.
You told me we supposed to bring our beefing before the group, right? - You're warring with Marlo over corners.
Marlo ain't in the group.
Be that as it may, all this shoot-'em-up shit is bad for business.
We got cops on half the West Side corners.
What corner are they holding? I can't have my people standing on for fear they're gonna be mistaken as one of the Barksdale people and catch a bullet.
I tried to talk to the young buck myself but - You talk to Avon.
That's half the problem.
No doubt, exactly.
That's what I'm saying, man.
Nigger probably sleeping in.
I like the way you move I like Fact is, Stringer, your man needs to reconcile himself to this new way of thinking.
Now you could remind him that, like everyone else in this room, he benefiting from the wholesale price we got by throwing in together.
I mean, he know that.
Come on, Joe.
So now we're coming to him for help.
He need to just back the fuck off and let the young gun keep his corners.
It can't be about territory no more.
Old habits die hard.
Who this? - Yeah, it's me.
We're on the house where the dude is, you know - Talk, nigger.
Shit, man, I'm trying not to use names.
This Gerard, man, and we're on Omar, he gonna come out the house.
As you know, I ain't trying to lose no niggers on them corners but it's a two-way street, you know? Go ahead, man.
Gerard and Sapper got their sights on Omar.
Tried to reach Slim and he ain't answering.
So? - It's church day, Sunday morning, you know? - They sure it's him? - Omar, yeah.
All right, do it.
Do it.
Gerard.
They right there, come on.
All right, here you go.
Oh, my goodness! My goodness! This time, I definitely hit him.
District-wide, it's 14%.
A drop like that in the Western felony rate is unheard of.
But God knows what happens when you let go of your secret.
Hey, what happens happens.
If they want to keep my experiment going or go back to business as usual, that's on them.
But me? I'm out of here, D.
I'm gone.
And Hopkins came through.
I got a contract offer on that security job yesterday.
You're really gonna retire? - Always planned to.
What? You started something.
You ain't gonna finish it? - What do you mean? - On a battlefield you can't do much.
But you managed a truce, Bunny.
And making the game street legal takes the heart out of it.
Keep it going, we're gonna reach some of those people chasing dope and coke, maybe even some hoppers too.
You might at that.
Well, what happens when you turn your district over to the next man? Or people get wind of this thing and there's no one to defend it? What then? - How's the contrast on that? - Good for daylight.
Yeah? On a Sunday? What the fuck, Lester? Could say the same of you.
Elena's taken the kids to her mother's, what the fuck else am I gonna do? No life, no marriage, no kids.
No problem.
What's with the video? Gonna put it up across from Stringer's print shop, catch him coming and going.
Hey, you need help? - You're a known face.
I figure me and Prez do it on a Sunday, shop is closed, looking like working men.
I do believe there aren't five swinging dicks in this entire department can do what we do.
I'm not saying all chest-out and shit.
It's just I mean, you think about it, there's maybe, what, 3,000 sworn, right? Hundred or so are bosses, so there's not a fucking clue there.
Few more hundred is sergeants and lieutenants, most of them wanna be bosses.
Then there's 600 or 700 fucking housecats, you know, deskmen.
The patrol division? There's probably a little bit of talent there but the way the city is right now, that's 1,500 guys chasing calls and clearing corners.
I mean, nobody's knowing his post, nobody's building nothing, right? CID's the same, catching calls, chasing quick clearances, keeping everything in the shallow end.
I mean, who is there out there can do what we can do with a case? How many are there really? Don Worden, Ed Burns, Gary Childs out in the county, John O'Neil and Steve Cleary over at Woodlawn.
Oh, they bring it in, but there's not many.
There's not many.
We're good at this, Lester.
In this town, we're as good as it gets.
Natural police.
Fuck, yes, natural police.
Tell me something, Jimmy.
How exactly do you think it all ends? - What do you mean? - A parade? A golden watch? A shining Jimmy-McNulty-Day moment when you bring in a case so sweet everybody says, "Aw, shit, he was right all along.
"We should have listened to the man.
" The job will not save you, Jimmy.
It won't make you whole, it won't fill your ass up.
I don't know.
A good case - Ends.
They all end.
The handcuffs go click and it's over.
And the next morning it's just you in your room with yourself.
Until the next case.
Boy, you need something outside of this here.
Like what? Dollhouse miniatures? Hey, hey, hey.
A life.
A life, Jimmy, you know what that is? It's the shit that happens while you're waiting for moments that never come.
On a Sunday morning? - We called to ask.
And Shamrock said to go.
On a Sunday morning y'all try to hit a nigger when he taking his wrinkle-assed grandmoms to pray? And you don't hit the nigger neither? All y'all kill is grandma's crown? And by the time Sham said go, Omar damn near in the cab.
Ain't enough to violate the Sunday morning truce.
No! I'm standing here holding a torn-up church crown of a bona fide colored lady.
Do you know what a colored lady is? Not your moms, for sure.
Cos if they was that, y'all would have known better than that bullshit.
Y'all trifling with Avon Barksdale's reputation here.
You know that? - Is she all right, though? - She got cut on her face from the glass and she's sore from where I fell on her, but other than that, no.
You saved her ass, huh? I damn near got that woman killed, y'all.
Y'all should have seen me in Sinai Hospital while they stitching her, lying about why somebody wanna shoot me down in the street.
That woman think I work in a cafeteria.
Cafeteria? - At the airport, yeah.
Airport? Why the airport? - Cos she ain't never gonna go to dine there.
Yo, Kimmy, this ain't funny, yo.
That woman raised me! And for as long as I've been grown, once a month, I've been with her to church, telling myself ain't no need to worry cos there ain't nobody in this city that low down to disrespect a Sunday morning.
Y'all know I was gonna walk away, right? Y'all knew that, right? I mean, after Tosha, I was gonna leave them people be.
Avon home now.
Barksdale got to go.
Stringer, too.
This thing got to end, man.
I swear to God, on a Sunday morning, they near shot her best crown off, yo.
I mean, no shame, them niggers, man! Y'all feel me? I'm out.
If you're back to dealing with Barksdale people, I'm out, yo.
I'm in it for the money.
It's easier out there than that.
Just you and me, then, like it was.
No, yo, this one about me.
And nobody else.
Hey, I'm with you.
Not on this one, you ain't.
OK, guys, we are a step and a half away from being up on a wire on these people.
All we need is to show the disposable phones are being used in a drug conspiracy.
McNulty and Greggs, you're on that angle.
Walk either an undercover or a wired CI up to one of the Barksdale crews.
Lester, you and Prez start typing affidavits.
Because when the probable cause comes in, we need to get the application in fast.
Detective, you're on Bernard.
When he goes out for cell phones, we're right behind.
The faster we get the new numbers, the faster we're on those phones.
Now when Caroline comes back off vacation, she's gonna be on the mini-cam.
From here on out, we keep a log on any movement by Stringer and we keep an eye out for Mr.
Barksdale as well.
Try to get a line on where he spends his days.
As for me, I'm off to do battle with the wireless company.
Are they a problem? - Have been since the things were invented.
OK, then.
Remember that with this wire, everything is a race against the clock.
Anything we get up on is only temporary.
Did you reach Bubbles? - Yeah.
He'll be waiting at Mount Clare.
Lee, where's the DNR log? - What? The log.
Never mind, I got it right here.
All Stringer, all the time.
Er, Theresa D'Agostino, please.
Can you hold, please? Yeah, I'll hold.
She's not in the office.
You wanna leave a message? No, I left one already.
A boxing gym? - For kids, you know.
An athletic club.
Gyms, reducing salons, public baths are permitted only in properties zoned B2, B3, B4 or B5.
All signed and sealed by a registered architect.
Floor framing plan, including load criteria.
Piping layouts.
Six copies of your fire protection plan with emergency exits and sprinkler system noted.
Health Department since it's a health service.
A license from the State Athletic Commission up on Calvert Street.
Mid-size or full? - Mid-size.
You should upgrade and get one of them Escalades.
They got the XM radio an' all.
I'm saying, if we gonna be in that damn car all damn day, it's worth it, Bernard.
You ticklish, Bubs? The chills, Kima.
You do that to me.
Here's the buy money, Bubs.
Remember, this is all on tape.
I hear you.
Down there on Vincent Street they don't even hide the ground stash anymore.
You see when they're running low, then ask for 30 so they have to call for a re-up.
That's the important thing.
We want him to use his burner.
All right.
I get to keep the 30.
30 would kill you, Bubs.
You get to keep the money we hand you once you come back here with all that product.
I was just asking.
Just telling.
It can't be done.
Excuse me? The activation information you're gonna want is not accessible until it goes to billing and that takes a few days, sometimes a week or more.
But more than that, we have dozens of law enforcement inquiries every month.
We get to them in the order received and currently the turnaround's 30 days.
30 days? - Let me understand something.
Your company is in business selling disposable cell phones to people who don't have to give subscriber information at the time of purchase, correct? Correct.
They buy these phones and they use them anonymously, - pre-paying for their minutes.
From the retailers, yes.
And while they're using these phones anonymously for whatever purpose, they can't be monitored by law enforcement because your company can't react within a month to a court order for a wiretap? We do the best we can.
This is bullshit.
You're selling a phone that you know is effective for drug trafficking.
Lieutenant, our prepaid inventory is there for young people, college students and such, people who can't afford a permanent cell phone plan.
What college student can't afford a cell phone? They can afford the fucking college, - they can afford the phone.
I resent the suggestion.
Just so I'm clear, you're telling me that even if by some miracle we are able to get up on a drug dealer's cell phone in time to catch him talking, you're gonna take a month to activate our tap.
If you have a problem with that, your office can contact our general counsel.
That's all I can say.
How about this? How abut the State's attorney calls a press conference on the courthouse steps to declare that Bay Wireless is in league with violent drug traffickers, preventing their arrest by law enforcement? Four to five days turnaround.
Best we can do.
I swear, I felt like a damn balloon with air rushing out of my ass going from desk to desk.
This is our new man, huh? - Frank Reid.
Dennis Wise.
Reverend, Dennis spent all day down at the Benton building trying for permits.
On the new gym? - Yeah.
You use my name? You use anybody's name? Hell, man, there was a time I'd have used a Smith & Wesson.
Nah, look, man, I'm just saying, how do regular folk get it done in this town? Doreen, ring Delegate Watkins, please.
Yellow tops, yellow tops.
Obliged, man, obliged.
Keeping it close, you know? You tell a friend, OK? Too hot for them black Ts, right? - What's up? What you hawking? - Body bags.
All right, let me get 30 30 pills.
Where the fuck did your raggedy ass come up with 300 in motherfucking cash, man? I've been selling T-shirts for weeks now.
I might be raggedy, but I'm in a cash business.
You want my money or no? Body bags.
Come get 'em.
Body bags.
Yeah, we out.
All right.
Shouldn't be long.
A bulk purchase justify a discount, right? - 250 or so? - 275.
And a couple of them whiteys.
That'll work.
That'll work.
Bubs just made another 25.
Theresa D'Agostino, please.
I'm sorry, but she's not in.
Can I take a message? - No, I'll call back.
So how's that working? - What? - Your new ho.
So far, so good.
You got the receipts there? - A few blew out the damn window.
Y'all waiting to see Avon? I hear y'all shot the crown off an old lady's head yesterday.
Mm-mm-mm.
Good, y'all made it.
Yeah.
We're putting in some work.
Come on upstairs so we can talk.
Back with numbers.
How many? Two each from Mondo Marts in Catonsville and Sykesville and four from Frederick and then eight each from two stops in West Virginia.
Those bumper beepers? They work great, man.
He went out I-70 this time.
Can you blame him? The scenery's better.
Gonna have a lot of DNRs.
But with any luck one of these phones leads to young Mr.
Bodie Broadus.
You wanna call Pearlman? - Yeah.
Who's hungry? - How about Chinese? - Sounds good to me.
You guys call it in and I'll go.
You type this shit and I'll go with him.
Make mine a sweet and sour.
Lo mein for me.
Get rolling? So y'all deal with Charles.
He gonna give you all the details on it.
Who that? - East Side niggers.
They're willing to soldier up for us on retainer.
Milton put me up on them.
Man, we're gonna be back where we were, String.
I can smell it.
We just gotta get this boy Marlo and then we spread out like we do.
Them co-op boys ain't too happy about that situation, man.
Yeah, they say they got cops on corners where they wouldn't have otherwise.
Man, fuck them niggers.
I mean, Prop Joe said he'd mediate, go to Marlo, talk on it.
Yeah, well, if he take a gun with him, maybe it could work.
Let me ask you something, though.
Did you tell them discount-ass niggers they could pop off at Omar's grandma? Oh, man, Sham come to me in the middle of the meeting and talk about they got their sights on Omar.
They say nothing about no grandma, no church hat, nothing like that.
I hear the cocksucker's name, I say go.
On a Sunday morning? Yo, I don't give a fuck, man.
I hear that name, I ain't thinking about a church day.
The Sunday truce has been around as long as the game itself, man.
You can do some shit and be, like, "What the fuck?" But just never on no Sunday.
Mm.
I mean, it's like people is talking on us, the stories is getting bigger and bigger.
Like Fat Face Rick heard that our people shot Omar granny in the ass on purpose and pulled they dicks out, pissed on her crown and shit.
No, I mean, I heard the same bullshit.
Prop Joe gave me an earful.
But what can I say? Good help is hard to find.
If it weren't, you think I'd be paying East Side niggers for shit? Yeah.
Yo, are we still off them corners? Yeah, gotta be.
We're gonna be off them corners till we take care of Marlo.
Yeah.
Maybe we should put a couple more crews on them free zones them cops got, you know what I mean, take the profit where we can.
You trust that shit? - I mean, so far.
They ain't gonna get nobody higher than a crew chief taking charge, right? What you gonna do with them two niggers downstairs? I'm gonna make them buy the lady a new hat.
What are we waiting for? Sweet and sour? You do the cookie first? What's the difference? "A new friend makes himself known.
" "Himself?" If it was "herself," then you'd have a fortune.
Shit, I'm married with lawn furniture, man.
The technology's out of control, no question, but that's nothing new.
The way these guys are using disposables nowadays, we cannot get a working wire up in time.
By the time we get papers served - They're dumping phones.
Cellular carriers tell them they need a week to process the paperwork.
They're only half-scared of us, but a visit from the Feds? - You all have profile enough to push them.
I don't know.
If you've got them down to five days, you're doing about as well as we can.
Once again, guys.
The Bureau's a little busy with counter-terrorism.
Our US Attorney here, he only touches himself for political corruption.
Ghetto drug stuff just doesn't rate, I'm sorry to say.
This shit always smells best in the car going home.
Unit 13.
In the alley in the rear, East Side, - That's five blocks, up and over.
Go.
What's the cross street? What's the cross street? Shots fired.
Sounded like it was west of Milton.
I'm police! He's 10-7, call it in.
A Glock.
I saw the gun as he turned.
It's Derrick.
Jesus Christ.
You killed Derrick.
It's Waggoner.
You fucking killed Waggoner! - Greggs.
Prez shot another cop.
What? - It was an accident in an alley a while ago.
No.
I'll call you back.
You here for Barksdale? - I'm here for peace, man.
There's some senseless shit going on.
But Barksdale ain't sent you? No, Stringer knows I'm here, man.
If I bring something respectful back, they most likely to show the same.
Tell the boy he can come in with the co-op.
If he takes our package, which is better than the best he putting out there now, he'll keep his corners, guaranteed.
He might listen, but the boy's got ideas.
And he's thinking Avon weak right now.
Have you ever known Avon Barksdale to back down from anything? Of course you do.
Get statements from responding officers.
A plain-clothes man in a dark alley with his gun out and shots fired.
No one wants to burn anybody but there's a racial component to consider.
The appearance - Has he seen a lawyer? - Lieutenant.
What? You can't compel a statement out of him until you read him his rights and we haven't yet.
I'm his commanding officer.
I just want to know if he's all right.
OK, OK, there's just It's a legal question at this point.
Can I get you anything? You should call the union, Roland.
Talk to a lawyer before you say anything further.
I'm not saying anyone's gonna charge anything criminally.
Everyone knows you had no intention of But administratively, you need to be careful because of the racial thing.
You see that, right? There's gonna be people in the department who see this that way.
You see that, right? - I wasn't scared, I wasn't angry.
I didn't give a shit he was black or whatever Or maybe I did.
How the fuck do you know if that's in your head or not? But you saw the gun.
Yeah.
Yeah, he turned toward me and Cos you shouted, right? You shouted "police" and he turned, right? No, I don't think so.
I don't think I said anything.
I don't think he did.
I was a couple steps in the alley and he turned and I saw the gun.
That's all.
Did he have kids? A wife? - I don't know.
They won't say.
They won't talk to me about him.
Call the FOP.
Get a lawyer, Roland.
No, sir.
I'm done.
Let the lawyer talk for you.
Lieutenant Tell Lester I'm sorry.
Call the union.
He wants a lawyer in there with him.
Whenever he's done here, you need to send someone home with him.
For tonight at least, he's a suicide watch.
Lieutenant.
Eryou'll back him? Um What I mean is, if this thing should turn into some kind of a black-white thing, you're his unit commander.
He can count on you, right? You all right? Lo mein.
What a clusterfuck.
How many years on for Waggoner? - Six and a half.
Two commendations, Hm.
Pretty much the exact opposite of that goof in there.
You know what's in that guy's jacket? Motherfucker flaked out, shot up his own radio car.
They were gonna charge him with false report until Valchek weighed in.
You know he married Valchek's daughter, right? Fucking goof had nine lives behind that shit.
Eight up, and the rest still to be activated whenever the cellular company gets to our subpoenas.
You did good, Detective.
So we're looking for what? Looking for one of these phones to give us a signature on our man Bodie.
Calls to his girlfriend, his grandmother.
The numbers we pulled off the burners.
We see that, we know it's his phone.
We know it's his phone, we know he used it to sell drugs.
We know all that.
Then we get a tap up and pray like hell he doesn't throw it away any time soon.
Prez would love this.
I ain't gonna lie to y'all, I don't know about nothing except the boxing part.
That's all I was thinking.
Hm.
Were you a pug? - Yeah, I was, but I got sidetracked, though.
Well, Reverend Reid seems to think you'd be quite a draw for some of these corner kids that we got.
They didn't think so downtown? Well, the fact is, you're looking to put your gym in the Fourth District.
So your council person would be Eunetta Perkins.
Do you know Miss Perkins? - Mm-mm.
Well, few of us do anymore.
Well, since we can't rely on Miss Perkins, Miss Daniels here will go with you.
She's here because constituent service is the life of a city council person.
She needs to get a taste of that.
At least I hope I do.
If you don't mind me asking, Mr.
Watkins, why are you doing this? Do you know who Reverend Reid is? Well, the voters in my district do.
This came today? - Well, now, see, this is fucked up.
I give you $250,000 to have them tell me my paperwork is insufficient to certify me as a developer? - You could call it fucked up.
Look, I know we touched the right people.
Just let me get with them, clear this mess up.
Get with them? - I'm on it, String.
You got the light bulb franchise, right? That came through.
Now You talking about 30,000.
I'm talking about the 250,000 that you took.
Now, you need to call Mr.
Goose, Mr.
Faucet, whoever the fuck you gotta call, because I gave you money to run.
It ain't like no drug deal, String.
Hell, man, you don't put your money on the street and have it come right back.
It don't? - Patience, my man.
Sometimes with the bureaucracy, the one hand don't know what the other is all about.
Yeah? Well, you know what I see? I see one hand in my pocket while the other has grabbed your dick.
Fucking Prez.
I don't even feel like working.
Sanny, baby! - Welcome to the Western, guys.
That thing with Pryzbylewski? Jesus Christ! So fucking sad, man.
So you're humping a wagon, huh? - Fuck, yes.
How's that working out for you? - Jimmy, I love this fucking gig.
It's the best thing Rawls ever did for me.
No stress, no struggle, eight-hour shifts.
I take nothing home with me.
Really, I couldn't be happier.
All those years knocking my head against a wall on homicide, and for what? The same fucking pension with twice the heartburn.
I'm glad you landed on your feet, Mike.
Hello.
You called my office? - Yeah, I did, several times.
Really, why? - Why do you think? - A sleepover.
You want to get dinner first? - How about tonight? - Georgia Brown's near 15th Street.
That'll work.
You want me to make a reservation? - I can always get a table there.
All right.
Whatever.
Let's shoot for 7:30.
I'll see you then.
Bye.
Bye.
You in? What do you think? Nice colors.
You got a platform? - Schools.
Thought I'd be the education mayor.
Well, good luck, Tony.
I mean it.
Thanks, man.
When do you announce? - Next month, I think.
You know, get out there early, start raising money.
In fact, I thought I'd make some rounds before then, feel people out.
Watkins? - He seems to like me.
What, you really think Odell Watkins is gonna split from the Mayor's camp? What you could do is feel him out on an issue or two.
That way it's more subtle.
You gotta charm the guy first.
Talk to him about the issues, then see if he's willing to throw sunshine on your ass.
I like that.
We should do that.
We? I was thinking maybe you would ticket your white ass up with me.
Run for council president.
Me an emerging black leader, handsome, well spoken.
You, the great white hope, the new voice of civic reform.
We could give Royce a run, man.
What makes you think I'm interested? What the hell else have you got going? Think about it.
Look at 'em, like roaches when you turn the lights on.
What's it look like? - Head and torso.
You got two casings over here.
Hold the call.
So much for "no violence in Hamsterdam" theory, huh? Herc.
Help them move the body.
What? - Just up the block, out of the free zone.
Carv, have you lost your fucking mind? Before the ambo gets here, we can do it.
Why? - If homicide gets here, if they canvass, they're gonna get wind of this shit downtown.
Good.
Herc, come on.
No way, man.
No way.
Fuck those stripes.
Fuck 'em.
Tope, Gil, help me move this guy out of Hamsterdam.
I'll be first officer at the scene.
It's my responsibility.
Don't forget the casings.
Make sure you call me.
I will.
Thank you.
Take care.
All right.
Yes! Go ahead, 760.
Have 70010-11 me on Vincent Street below Fayette.
You say you worked with this guy? "Three shots, no warnings.
" Is he scared of black people or something? Shit.
The shit's gone too far.
You're telling me.
Yeah, I need the number to the newspaper, the Sun.
Yeah, the number for the reporters, the newsroom, yeah.
So you ain't gonna say nothing on it? - What is there to say? - Avon, this is blood, family.
I know it.
And I'm telling you that someone may have done this to us, Avon, to our family.
The cop's just saying that shit.
To mess with your head.
Exactly.
Why? That cop don't know me for shit.
What am I to him? He know you gonna wanna think that Dee, he wouldn't do what he did.
I do think it! Was it some beef he had? Someone on the inside? The cop said it was someone who didn't want you to know - and so they made it look like it did? - Nobody did nothing.
But the cop said - He's lying.
He paid to lie.
Avon, you are my brother.
I need to know this more than anything.
Dee did not roll on us.
He came to the edge but he turned around and walked away.
And I know he was willing to do what he had to for his family.
For us.
But I need to know that you know that, that you saw him that way.
What? What you trying to say? - If something happened - What the fuck are you even thinking? That I had something to do with it, I could do that to my own kin? Is that what you fucking think? What the fuck is in your head? I didn't do nothing to Dee.
I ain't had shit to do with it.
To do with what? - To do with what? - Whatever happened.
Whatever it is that happened, Brianna.
You think I don't know my business? - I understand.
I can see the body was moved from the block.
I can get him to you tomorrow morning.
Just let me see if I can find him.
What did he say? They found a blood trail going back up the block.
So maybe - Smeared, with drag marks.
They found a third casing at the other end.
Shit.
So what's the deal? The deal is we turn this into a dunker by tomorrow morning or he starts typing a report for ISD.
Fuck me.
No, fuck me! Look, you didn't move that body, Sergeant.
I moved the body.
You understand? I respect that you did what you did on behalf of what I'm trying to do down here, but the responsibility is mine.
So what do we do? He said he wasn't gonna commit any new resources though he has placed it on the agenda of the Coordinating Council, - for what that's worth.
Poor Clarence.
He's looking tired.
So we're looking for help from the State House.
If the city could get a few hundred thousand, we could afford to protect these folks.
I know this is an easier sell with the Mayor - Could you convince him? - Clarence? He barely listens anymore.
Jesus, tell me about it! Three years as a councilman is a long time to be ignored.
I'm saying the rules got broke.
My people kept their promises.
They did what they said and they were as good as their word.
Y'all Y'all ain't kept up your end of it.
Wasn't my people.
Look, I ain't making those distinctions now.
The fact is, somebody brought a gun up in the free zone and used it, and both those things against the promises made.
Now, I can't justify this shit if I got dead bodies up in there.
So, what I'm saying is this, come tomorrow, if I don't have a shooter in bracelets, this whole Hamsterdam affair is over, it's finished.
I'm gonna take my people back up on the corners and we gonna fuck y'all.
You hear me? Yeah, it was good while it lasted, huh? You had cash and you ain't never needed no bail money.
And hell, I had clean corners everywhere I looked.
But all that gonna be gone tomorrow unless y'all bring me my shooter.
You think that will work? Do you? That's good food.
How did you know this place? - It was big when Clinton was in.
This and the Red Sage.
Now it's all steakhouses and cigar bars.
So you live here but you spend a lot of time in Baltimore, right? I have work up there.
And the alumni stuff with St.
Mary's on the Hill.
I went to UM Law so I still have connections there.
I grew up in Homeland.
Yeah? Lauraville for me.
Where did you go to college? Loyola.
Only one year.
My girlfriend got pregnant, so - So? - So, uh So you became a cop in Baltimore.
How's that working for you? - It's pretty good.
You know.
I do a lot of high-end drug stuff.
Wiretaps.
Prolonged investigations of violent offenders, that kind of stuff.
There's not a lot of guys in the department can do that kind of thing.
It takes a certain I don't know, you gotta love it.
Thrill of the chase and all that.
So, you do what in politics? - I do political campaigns.
You mean like a campaign manager? - More of a strategist really.
Not so much the day-to-day stuff but the strategy of how a candidate can win.
A consultant of sorts.
Are you strategizing for anyone in Baltimore? I shouldn't say.
He hasn't officially announced anything yet.
Is he any good? - Hey, if you're for him, I'll throw him a vote.
Who did you vote for this time? What, you mean Bush and whatshisname? Kerry.
You didn't vote for president? - I thought about it and you know Bush seemed way over his head, I know, but he wasn't gonna win in Maryland anyhow.
Besides, these guys, it doesn't matter who you got.
None of them has a clue what's really going on.
Where I'm working every day, the only way any of them will even find West Baltimore is if, I don't know, Air Force One crash-lands into Monroe Street on its way back to Andrews.
It just never connects.
Not to what I see, anyway.
Hey, that's just me, though.
The man Colvin say he want the boy locked up or the free zone shuts down tomorrow.
All she wrote for Hamsterdam.
Colvin? - From the Western.
Sham, who is this kid? - Some young boy from Tucky's crew.
Is he connected? Kin to anybody? - No, he only been on for a few months.
What did he use the whistle for? Some nigger in one of Ghost Kane crews laughed at his shoes.
Do it.
I'll be out in a minute.
No, he needs to put those in the departmental mail.
Yeah.
What do you need? - To turn myself in.
For what? - I shot a boy.
Oh, yeah?
We need another bag.
Where you at? - Over here.
Drug war? - Mm-hm.
Barksdale's coming back on my boy Marlo, huh? - Shit.
Got it.
Man, I don't know where we at.
We are in Baltimore, Lamar.
Baltimore, Maryland.
That's the second crib of mine they cracked this week.
Stir up a hornet's nest, no telling who gonna get stung.
All paranoid and shit.
Gotta be.
Whoa.
They got Latroy.
What the fuck is y'all on the streets for? There's a fucking war going on.
Get the fuck in the truck, man.
What happened to all them towers? - Slow train coming.
Huh? Reform, Lamar.
Reform.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole We should be up on this, hearing voices.
Get Bodie's phone, we will be.
We got enough PC off the burners.
These pen registers click, it screams drug conspiracy.
I'm not taking the case to court.
Pearlman wants a specific link to a known drug trafficker.
These drug crews dump phones every couple of weeks at best.
So when we do get a wire up, it's a limited run.
That doesn't meet the cellular company's definition of "exigent circumstance"? What's your boss willing to do? Demper? He's a bit too focused on next year's re-election fight.
How about the feds? - They say they can't do anything for us.
Look at how they use the Federal Communications Act.
For national security stuff, they use the Patriot Act.
Everything else gets shorted.
The industry has all of us by the balls.
Pardon my French, Your Honor.
I'll tell you what.
Best I can do for you is this.
You give me a boilerplate affidavit with the PC from the court report.
And as you get numbers for the new disposables, you call me.
Anytime, day or night, to jump phones.
But we're still gonna be getting up on their phones - even as they're coming down.
Probably.
This is so totally - Fucked up.
Je parle franais bien.
Et tu estrs charmant aujourd'hui.
Judge Phelan has you on his mind.
How long has that been going on? Started with my first jury trial in his court, I think.
I bet you won all your motions.
You wanted to see me, sir? - Have a seat.
I wanna thank you for the loyalty you showed moving that body.
It wasn't the most sensible thing but I appreciate it.
You're a good man, Sergeant.
You got good instincts, and as far as I can tell, you're a decent supervisor.
But from where I sit, you ain't shit when it come to policing.
Don't take it personal.
Ain't just you, it's all our young police Whole generation of y'all.
Now, you think about it.
You've been here over a year now, Carver.
You got nobody looking out for you, nobody willing to talk to you.
That about sum it up? And that's a problem.
I didn't think there was any way I'd get my head around it, but then Dozerman gets shot for some bullshit.
And that's when I about reach my limit.
That's when the idea of the free zone, come to me, because this drug thing, this ain't police work.
No, it ain't.
I can send any fool with a badge and a gun up on them corners, and jack a crew and grab vials.
But policing? I mean, you call something a war, and pretty soon everybody gonna be acting like warriors running around on a crusade, storming corners, slapping on cuffs, racking up body counts.
And when you at war, you need a fucking enemy.
And pretty soon, damn near everybody on every corner is your fucking enemy.
And soon the neighborhood you police, that's just occupied territory.
You follow this? - I think so.
Look here, the point I'm making, Carver, is this.
Soldiering and policing, ain't the same thing.
And before we went and took the wrong turn and started up with these war games, the cop walked a beat, and he learned that post.
And if things happened up on that post, whether they be a rape or robbery or shooting, he had people out there helping him, feeding him information.
But every time I come to you, my DEU Sergeant, for information, to find out what's going on out there in them streets, all that came back was some bullshit.
You had your stats, your arrests, your seizures.
But that don't amount to shit when you talking about protecting the neighborhood, now, do it? You know the worst thing about this so-called drug war, to my mind It just It ruined this job.
Major - What you got? Incoming.
Sun paper reporter.
Been to the free zones, all three of them.
Meet you at the car.
We rewrite the affidavit, add stuff from the pen registers, take it to the judge.
You have a law degree? If you did, it would be your call to make.
Who would pretend to be a lawyer that wasn't? I think we're being too cautious on this.
We're going the extra mile for Phelan.
A short cut now could cost us later.
We drew Phelan on this wiretap? That two-faced hack sold me out last time.
He's not running for a new term.
He'll be fine.
He's a piece of shit.
We're all pieces of shit when we're in your way.
That goes with the territory.
Point taken.
So it's these warehouses, the old Winchester Homes, and the dead blocks down by Vincent Street? All three.
They're just supposed to let it go on like this? Colvin told us to push the street dealing in these areas, then start locking people up, but so far, not a single arrest.
And they know about this downtown? - I don't think so.
But I'd love to be there when you pop the question.
This is just - Tell me about it.
Got the place looking good.
Yeah.
Now all that needs doing is to go out and get you some kids.
Come on, man.
You making it sound easy, but, tell you the truth, I ain't got no idea how to go at these hoppers.
I wouldn't lose any sleep over that.
Nobody else does, neither.
We got one.
His grandmother.
Looking for me? There's no reason to leave your clothes in the washer.
I'm sorry.
I just forgot, OK? But I did pick up the laundry soap.
That's definitely a code.
Let's listen to an intercept we made of Bodie a couple of years back.
I'm telling y'all, I saw the boy.
He saying he ain't got that thing.
Same voice, no question.
I'll let the judge know.
Reference the voice comparison.
We're up! Yeah.
Got it right here, yo.
Yeah, that's right.
Major Colvin, Western District.
Banisky, Sun papers.
So, this your idea? - Got one, get one! Mind if wewalk? Apocalypse.
Got that Apocalypse.
Right here, shorty.
You got dealers selling with impunity, addicts shooting up on the street, people down here doing outreach, giving out needles an' all.
Who knows about this at headquarters? - Command is well aware of the situation.
While there was some initial concern, they feel that the cases we're gonna bring in - Cases? - Yeah, prosecutions, sure.
Your officers say no one's being locked up.
My troops are only pushing the trafficking to designated areas.
They're ignorant of the investigation.
That's run out of CID.
Yeah? Who's the lead detective? Look.
I already said more than I should.
The bottom line is, you start throwing calls around now, they're gonna think there's a leak.
They'll come up on the case and we won't get all we can out of this good work.
You're telling me all this is an enforcement strategy? What the hell else could it be? You think we would actually let this happen otherwise? Come on, Banisky.
I mean, look.
Look at this mess.
Any other reporter gets on it I give it to you, and you run with it right then.
Absolutely.
A week.
But then I gotta run something, no matter what.
Purple Haze, Purple Haze.
It's understood.
So, brother, what brought you back? It disturbs me to leave business unfinished.
Heard you was shot before you even got started down here.
Not like you to get played.
Betrayed, you mean.
I am looking for the man they sent.
From his accent, he's home-grown, raised on the street.
Skilled, intelligent, late 20s, dark, but with a scar across his face, like so.
You down with this nigger? - I know him.
Not to speak to.
But you can't be anywhere near the game and not know the motherfucker.
He with Barksdale? He with himself.
Except for when he running with a young boy or two.
It should be all about money.
I know.
Dialling for dollars.
Don't stop until you hit your numbers.
We'll need a million just for television.
You really think this is doable? - The odds aren't great, but, yeah.
As long as the thousand things that can go wrong don't go wrong.
Even for a white guy? - Even for a white guy.
Speaking of which, I notice a certain monochromatic effect here.
One thing we're gonna need is black faces and we're gonna need them in prominent positions.
Right.
Start thinking about endorsement by black leaders.
Ministers, community people, elected officials.
Here comes the hard part.
Splitting the black vote is the only way to make the math work.
So, Tony Gray's gotta get in the race and he's gotta stay viable in the race.
Guy's a lightweight, ain't he? - He's a good guy.
Great.
He's a good guy, but we need him to siphon votes from Royce.
I don't know.
This thing with Tony It's not personal, Tommy.
It's politics.
Live with it, or lose.
Hey, yo.
That boy with the sharp nose, he going to the Apollo.
The Apollo? - He need two tickets.
Tweety Bird working that.
How many times I tell you not to use names? - So I holler at you? - Yeah.
All right.
Apollo, like the theater? - Like 125th Street.
The only new code is Hamsterdam.
Hamsterdam.
It might have something to do with the stash house.
I'm gonna hook up with Kima, catch the Tweety Bird meet.
You're happy with what we're getting? - Another week of this and we'll have their network fleshed out and plenty more phones to go up on.
I need a moment with the detectives.
Sure.
IID picked up Prez's shooting.
The racial thing alone is tense enough that they gotta react.
No luck at all to that boy.
For the supervisor's report, I need to ask if either of you had any indication that Prez harbored racial prejudices.
Well, he harbored some weird shit, no doubt, but I never got a racial vibe.
Lieutenant, you seriously asking? You think Waggoner gets shot if he's white? - Description called for a number one male.
I'm just saying.
The good Lord set Sunday morning aside for churchgoing.
Even Kenny Bird and Peanut had the good sense to respect the truce.
You know them Barksdales sent a hat? A church crown? Walked up, rang the bell, and set it down on the porch.
Cos they shamed.
Is Miss Josephine mending? - She bruised up still, but she all right.
But you ain't.
Not until I settle this for good.
I want you to go inside my bank and spread the word.
Omar paying cash to get at them people, you feel me? - Save your money.
I got to do this.
I'm saying you ain't got to pay.
Thomkins, up on McCulloh.
What, the funeral home? - Mm.
You mean all this time you had a scope on them clowns, - and you ain't let loose a word.
I was looking out for you.
Fact is, your chances of going up against that mob and coming back is as slim as a garter snake.
I can't help that now, Butch.
What the fuck? Where's my people? Slim Charles pulled them.
Hired new muscle.
Slim Charles? When the fuck did he? - How's the count? - Down bad for the third straight week.
And the shelf life of the shit we got, it ain't gonna last, String.
I know.
Slim said they're to stick to you for protection.
Give it here! - Nice shot.
Dribble it back out.
Get your dribble on.
Fucking hack.
Yo, yo, easy, easy.
Y'all just hacking my man up.
Foul machine.
Nice drive.
Kind of unschooled, ain't they? - You cherry-picking! That meant as just a casual, "Fuck you", or are you looking to maybe help out here? I'm gonna give it a try.
I'm looking to get some kids interested in boxing.
Boxing? Look here.
This is my time-out corner.
Where I send children who can't play nice together.
Listen up.
This man's starting a boxing program.
Looking at y'all, signing on might be a good thing.
You need it.
The only thing he know how to do with his fist is wrap it around his cock.
Fuck you, man! Gonna kick your ass! - Come on, motherfucker, you ain't shit.
Sit down, sit down.
Fucking faggot! - Don't call me a faggot, faggot! Sit down.
Come on, man.
Sit down, man.
Sit down.
My man, you dropping your right.
If young 'un there was trained, he'd whip you.
Look like he the one that got beat.
Stand up, let me show you something.
Come on, man.
I ain't gonna hurt you.
Yellow tops, yellow tops, got them yellow tops.
Yellow tops.
See that? All right, sit down.
Look, if y'all wanna learn more I got a gym down on Gilmor in the old tire plant.
Y'all are all welcome.
All right? I saw Tweety Bird parked up there.
All we gotta do is wait for the re-up.
I hope these fucks don't dick around and make us sit here all day.
What, this is eating at you? No, I'm good.
Yeah, I can see that.
Remember that woman I was talking about? Politician woman? How's it going? It ain't.
Turned to shit.
Feel like I don't even belong to any world that even fucking matters.
Cos you're a cop? No, it's not just that.
I went to meet her once.
She was in a hotel room, the top floor.
I punched the button on the elevator.
It doesn't even go there, you need some special key to even get to that special fucking floor.
So I go to the front desk, some sneering fuck calls upstairs, to give me permission to go get laid.
I listen to the shit she talks about, first time in my life, I feel like a fucking doormat.
Like anyone with any smarts would do something else with his life, you know? Earn money or get elected.
Like I'm just a breathing machine for my fucking dick.
I'm serious.
I'm the smartest asshole in three districts and she looks at me like I'm stupid, playing some stupid game for stupid penny-ante stakes.
She fucking looks through me, Kima.
Stay in the car.
Tall man said to stick to you like Tall man gonna be there when I stomp on your fucking head? Stay in the car.
Yo, make it short, man, I got a meet to make.
Fuck the meet! You harder to get at than my fat wife's cunt.
Yeah, you high-and-mighty Barksdales can afford to sit back and play low-key.
But some of us work for a living.
Think this mess ain't fucking up our business? So Avon's willing to sit down and talk with Marlo, work this shit out? Well, if that don't happen, String, I got you some bad news.
Me and the boys had us a sit-down.
Got a quorum and took a vote that says if y'all don't quit this war, we have a mind to shut you out.
And when I say out, String, I mean out the package.
The boys don't wanna extend the good shit if it keeps your people out on them corners, banging.
What about the boy? What he say? - Vinson say Marlo willing to talk if he can keep his corners.
Now hear me on this, String, we ain't no ingrates.
We all recognize your contribute to the co-op.
But the feeling is this.
It ain't right for you to be at the head of our table when you can't call off your dog.
Call it a crisis of leadership.
You're gonna tell 'em? Got to.
Between the health workers, the reporter and my own pissed-off troops, it's gonna come out.
Either tomorrow or the next day.
We should make a few arrests, make it look tactical.
No.
You know what happens if we start locking people up in Hamsterdam? The whole rest of the district goes back to being a shithole.
No.
If Rawls is gonna hand me my ass, at least give me a chance to tell the man my story first.
Devonne! What was that? It needed doing.
Somebody just got shot! I should give the snitch that clued us to the Denali.
I mean, we didn't get Marlo, but still No, he kept his end up.
Go it all.
Avon, I need a word, man.
Get them niggers out of here, man.
Check it out.
This shit got the kill range of, like, 50 metres.
Slim got this from some soldier coming back from wherever.
You know, I spoke to Prop Joe's people.
They think we can work this out.
A sit-down? It's the perfect time for it, man.
You done represented yourself, man.
Your name ringing out now that you taken Marlo down a notch or two.
Just let me get this right.
Then we get back to business as usual.
They gonna cut us out! Prop Joe and them voted.
They gonna cut us out.
So even if we win, we lose, cos we ain't gonna have no product to put on them corners.
Look at you.
Fucking shooting dope without a fucking needle right now, man, getting high on a power trip, playing fucking soldier.
You gotta sit back and think about our business.
What the fuck you want? That motherfucker.
He good.
What happened? You know, you gotta think about what we got in this game for, man.
Was it so our names could ring out on some fucking ghetto street corners, man? No, there's games beyond the fucking game.
Avon, look, you and me, we brothers, B.
We didn't think we'd make it this fucking far but we standing here with the whole world at our feet.
The whole world, man, not these fucking corners.
The whole world, B.
You know what Slim just told me? Devonne come up dead.
She was shot, one in the mouth, one in each tit.
You still wanna talk truce, String? You right when you say I need to learn more discipline.
But this? You could do this better.
You're the perfect bait, Lamar.
They'll see you as conflicted.
Your homophobia is so visceral.
You see that? I ain't even stepped inside the joint and you calling me a cocksucker already.
You in the right place? I'm looking for someone named Omar.
No last name.
Scar across his face and shit.
Scarface named Omar? Sounds different, but I can't help you.
You drinking? Maybe you wait four years.
No.
It has to be now.
It's gonna be a three-way, and Tony's gonna go this time.
I'm just Tony's my oldest friend on the council.
Couldn't you go talk to him first? Put it on the table? You know, "May the best man win"? Truth is he can't win alone against Royce, either.
He's got the bumper stickers but not much else.
Wants to run on education.
I mean, where do you go with that? If I level with Tony and he gets out, then I can't win.
I need him in the race.
I feel like shit.
I really do.
Don't look like much.
This don't look like shit.
Hell, yeah.
This some weak-ass shit right here.
Yeah.
Man, we got lockers, got gear.
It's all peeling and shit.
Go long.
Pass it here.
You getting me all dirty and shit.
Fuck your jeans.
Fuck you.
Bitch.
We clocked the meet with Tweety Bird, tracked him to a possible stash house, then home to nest in Woodlawn.
Got photos, his tags - What happened? - They ditched their phones.
The DNRs and the wire all died around 3:00.
We were online just shy of 30 hours.
I thought we had them for a couple of weeks.
Not anymore.
It's a week at best.
We just spent $9,000 and change for 18 intercepts, five of them non-pertinent.
That's close to $700 per drug call.
Shouldn't we get back on Bernard and his girl? I mean, get a line on the new phones at least.
But that'll only give us what we just had, Any way to get ourselves ahead of the curve? If there were some way to pre-wiretap the burners.
What then? Stick them on a rack at Baba-whatever and wait for Bernard to show up? The problem is the wireless people.
They claim it takes four days to process a court order, and that's only after I threatened to go public on them.
Four days to hit a couple of keystrokes.
Bullshit.
Well, what if No way.
I know what you're thinking.
I just thought the same fucking thing.
All right, when I tell you, put your left foot out, boy.
Unc patting my man's feet.
He smelling up my ass, too.
Stop with the clowning, man.
How the fuck you gonna learn something, acting like a fool? Ain't no big mystery why your face got tattooed.
He can't talk to you like that.
I seen his raggedy ass at the spot, copping vials.
Yeah, probably pimps his ass, too.
Listen, motherfucker - Yeah, bitch, touch me.
Touch a juvenile, see what happen.
Let's bounce.
Bitch-ass motherfucker.
Faggot.
Punk-ass nigger.
Chump ass.
Lester! - Mm? - First time I seen him smoking.
Tough habit.
And pacing like a motherfuck, too.
Heavy is the head that wears the crown.
Bay Wireless Connect 411.
What city and state? Baltimore, Maryland.
How may I help you? - Baltimore police.
Any particular department? - Western District police.
Is this an emergency? - No.
Non-emergency.
Man, they did you with the bum rush.
That's what they do.
They past experts at plucking nerves.
You just gotta remember they barely house-broke.
I'm telling you, man, you wouldn't believe it.
They was all wild and shit.
Wouldn't listen.
Andre, I want you to crowd him.
Yes, sir.
I'll crowd him.
Time! You just gotta set your mind to stick with it.
When those two stumbled in here, they was wild as wild.
Now they come in every day.
"Yes, sir.
No, sir.
" Still pretty rough, but with the right breaks, they gonna make it.
How? - Well, try as they might, I won't let them fail.
When you do that, it messes with their mind.
Pretty soon, they run out of their little bag of tricks.
What do you think of that? - Pretty weak.
He ain't weak.
That's the starting point.
No, no, I can't put a name on him.
But I seen him around.
He's off the West Side.
He ain't no drug dealer, unless he's doing it on the QT.
You can't go at him, game him? I don't know, Kima.
I mean, it'd be pressing.
What about her? Little Squeak off of Lanvale.
Yeah, she used to boost for Turtle Wells' old mob.
She's lost a bit of weight, too.
Looking a lot better than I remember.
And I remember a lot about that girl.
Bubs, is there anybody West Side you don't know? Just citizens and shit.
My CI knows the girl.
He can work her? - He's smooth, yeah.
Check this.
That's Western District.
Stringer's calling the Western? - Maybe he's surrendering.
After all the work we've done, I'd never forgive the son of a bitch.
Go down.
Go down and out.
Sweet! Look at the hands! - What's up? My knuckleheads didn't post? - Yeah, they did, but they left.
Over here! Looking for a discount, old man? - No, I'm looking for you.
Why, something come up missing? Came past to apologize.
I'm new at this coaching thing and got us off on the wrong foot.
I ain't gonna leave it between us, with you thinking I gave up on y'all.
Motherfucker's memory weak as shit.
We the one bailed out on him.
Anyway, I'm here now.
You wanna sell drug traffickers cellphones that are pre-approved for telephonic intercepts.
And you want me to sign off on court-ordered taps on phones that, at the time I'm signing the order, have not been used for any illegal activity whatsoever.
If you're looking for precedents, Your Honor, there aren't any.
It's circumstantial PC at best.
What the hell, let's do it.
Let the Court of Appeals sort it out, if it even gets that far.
Quite the legal mind.
Hmm.
Buy you a drink? - Why the fuck you coming up behind me? - I'm sorry.
Bushy top.
I didn't know if I'd find you here so late.
Just getting ready for COMSTAT tomorrow.
So what's up, Major? So your unit is still working a drug war, right? Working it hard.
Does the name Avon Barksdale do anything for you? - He's a player? - He's the main guy.
We thought he was down but he popped up in September.
You add him to the equation, it goes a long way to explaining the violence.
So it wouldn't be a stretch if he got shot? - You heard he got shot? You know where? I could run it out.
Ain't gonna make no difference.
He didn't post up at any emergency room from what I hear.
I'll be straight with you.
We're running wires into his people.
But we're barely above the street.
We haven't even put an eyeball on him.
Supposed to be laying his head there.
I need you to check that out, - get back to me as soon as you can.
You got a CI? You wanna see if your man's creds are bona fide.
Don't try to play me, bushy top.
I didn't say male.
I didn't say female.
All right.
I'll get surveillance going right away.
Barksdale's name is on the paperwork.
No shit.
Now, you get me a confirmation on that and call me back on the cell.
Good luck tomorrow.
Yeah, right.
Sham.
Shamrock.
Run these over to Levy for me.
Tell him I want a read on it.
A read? Fresh eyes.
Tell him I'll call him tomorrow.
All right.
Come on, Mr.
Bodyguard.
So we're gonna come at her like that.
You're giving me phones to sell? - The money comes back, Bubs.
All of it? Hey.
Is that Beadie Russell? - Looks like.
Yo, you can't turn from this lane! Sweet Beatrice Russell! I was just gonna say hey.
North and Pulaski.
That photo was taken at 4pm, prime time for the street-level dealer.
That is Riggs and Calhoun.
Mount and Fayette.
Edmondson and Brice.
That's your old foot post, Deputy.
I know where it is, Major.
What I don't know and very much want to know is where is the West Baltimore drug trade? I hope, Major, these are not staged photographs you're showing us.
No, sir, they are not.
No, Deputy, I found another approach.
I'm all ears, Bunny.
I moved them off the corners.
God damn it! Major, I can see that.
What I want to know is how the fuck you managed to move them and where the fuck they are now.
Deputy I don't know quite how to put this, but we I mean, I I began by identifying those areas where drug trafficking was least harmful.
I pushed all street-level dealing towards those areas.
Now, at first, dealing with the juveniles on them corners, I had little success.
But ultimately, by rounding up all the mid-level dealers in my district, and making them an offer they couldn't refuse, I - You made them an offer? - Yes, sir.
Either they move their people to one of three designated areas where drug enforcement was not a district priority, or they face the wrath of every able-bodied soul in my district.
Major, I don't understand.
The only time we can hold a drug corner is when we assign officers to stand there.
Your slides don't suggest any concerted deployment on any corners.
How were you able to - You nit, don't you see what he's done? He's legalised drugs! Actually, I elected to ignore them.
You lost your fucking mind.
He's lost his fucking mind.
You, in my office.
Now! OK.
That's it, gentlemen.
She's a go.
Showtime, Bubs.
Oh, shit.
Sister Squeak.
Bottom-end Bubbles.
Where you been, girl? Been a long time.
T- shirts? - What the hell kind of money is in T-shirts? - Girl, you just don't know.
How's your game? I heard you was locked up.
Shit, I got some things going.
I can see that.
How's he doing? - Talk a cat off a fish cart.
All right, Bubs, I gotta get.
I'll see you later on.
Yo, Squeak, Squeak.
I about forgot.
I can sell you one of these real cheap, if you got use for the shit.
I'm fucking dead.
You mean, we're fucking dead.
We're all dead behind this shit.
Jesus Christ! What I did, I did knowingly and on my own.
My men had nothing to do with this.
They thought it was part of some elaborate trap.
So if you need me to fall on that sword, I'm good with that.
You're good with it? You know I got my vacation time, and that's 30 in a couple of months.
So if you need me to fall, I'm ready.
But don't let me hear that you're taking any action against my people.
Because I can lie as good as the next man.
If I have to.
Are you threatening me? I believe I am, sir.
My apologies.
You cocksucker, I gotta give it to you! A brilliant idea! Insane and illegal, but stone-fucking brilliant, nonetheless.
After putting my foot up people's asses to decrease the numbers, he comes in and, in one stroke, gets a fucking 14% decrease.
Fucking shame it's gonna end our careers, but still Look, y'all probably tired of hearing from me, but I brought theseletters from community associations, ministers, business people, citizens.
And they're all positive.
They're all happy that the dealers are off the corners.
You think that's gonna save our asses, do you? No, I guess not.
But that and my badge is all I got.
I might have your badge, Major, but not today.
I don't wanna draw any attention to this shit before we're ready to speak to it.
So if you have any vacation time, you're taking it now.
Do not report for a shift until notified.
Oh, er One more thing, sir.
A Sun reporter is aware of my deployment.
I told him an investigation was pending.
He promised to delay the article.
How long? About a week, tops.
I was a superstroke on the pool circuit in the early days, but mostly it was pickpocketing and short cons.
I did the long-distance card heist before cellphones got popular.
You crypt numbers? - Yeah, I favored the airports, yeah.
Can you still read numbers? - What's up? Your man think I brought bad merchandise? Then we can beat feet right now.
Damn, Bernard, why you acting all CIA? We trying to make money here.
If you had to answer to the people I do, you would be more cautious, too.
I appreciate caution, cos I'm hanging out here, too.
Give it a go.
Use a cellphone.
Marlene, you send that copy off to Paris? Thank you, darling.
I'm not at work.
I'm at the airport.
The shuttle, yes.
Now, that last number might be a seven.
I'm not too sure with these small keypads and all.
We can do business.
Mm-hm.
That's it.
One-two, one-two, one-two.
One-two, that's it.
One-two, there you go.
All right, there it is.
Now you getting it.
Keep that left hand up.
All right.
Hey.
All right.
Watch your balance.
Don't lean forward.
Don't lean too much.
Don't lean too forward.
Let's go.
Don't lean too forward, that's right.
One-two, pivot.
You're kidding.
Tell me he's kidding.
You're kidding, right? - He did it without our knowledge.
Without your knowledge.
Well, that's worse.
You're the Commissioner.
Was the Commissioner.
You think the buck's gonna stop in this office, you're wrong.
If I might These are letters from people in his district.
Ministers, business people, voters.
All glowing reports.
And there's the 14% reduction in crime in the Western.
That's not an anomaly.
It's hard data.
Now, we can clean it up, make it go away.
The press might already have wind of it but we can explain that as some sort of a new initiative.
Trap high-end drug dealers.
If we handle this right, we might all get out from underneath.
No mud on anybody.
No.
No.
I trusted you, Erv.
I really did.
You let me down.
Now, this thing goes wrong, no telling the damage.
On this, you walk point.
That's the way things work, Erv.
You know it as well as I do.
Thank you, Ervin.
I'll be over shortly to see the detailed plan on how this shit gets cleaned up immediately.
If you could call this something other than what it is Don't even think it.
The way it works is this.
If you don't re-up the minutes on your cell phone before 60 days, the wireless company recycles the numbers.
That's where I get them.
I put the word out on the street that I'm buying tossed-off burners, paying $2 a pop.
Street people bring me hundreds.
I bring them here to my niece, she juices them up another 200 minutes on a bogus account.
And that automatically extends the life of the phone for another 60 days.
She charges me 20 on each phone on her end.
I double it or more on the street to make mine.
So what you saying? Baby, a standard Trac phone with 200, maybe 400 minutes on it, gonna run you 150, 200 easy.
I charge you an even 100.
You clear 50 on each phone.
That's if you got receipts.
I gotta show receipts looking like they from different places, or I can't play.
Can we accommodate the good man? - Damn, you know I got the bingo tonight.
Look, I ain't sure you wanna be around here, and I'm damn sure we're getting tired of having you.
I don't wanna be around no bunch of cocksucking faggots.
But I won't stop coming till I run up on Omar.
You might want to get the word out.
For the last time, I don't know him.
Then I'm back tomorrow.
Maybe I can help you? I don't doubt it for a minute.

That's far enough.
Drop your laundry and turn slowly.
So you gonna rob me now? I need to remind you who I am? Omar, isn't it? Pull it slowly.
Then toss it.
Oh, I will move slow.
I ain't tossing nothing, Bow Tie.
So whatever you gonna do, you might as well go ahead and make it quick.
I knew you'd come back.
I trust you didn't lose sleep over it.
Worrying about you would be like wondering if the sun gonna come up.
I ain't about to wild out over it.
What I want to know is how you find me.
Your boy, he didn't give you up easy.
Ain't no sugar-water run through them veins.
You kill him? - He's resting.
I see you favor a.
45.
Tonight I do.
And I keeps one in the chamber, in case you pondering.
Nice showpiece you got there.
Walther PPK.
380, double action.
Hear them Walthers like to jump some.
As will you, with one in your elbow.
That gun ain't got enough firepower to make my joint useless.
It definitely won't stop me from emptying out half my mag.
You might not hit me.
This range? And this caliber? - Even if I miss, I can't miss.
I admire a man with confidence.
I don't see no sweat on your brow neither, bro.
I suppose we could stand here all night.
Suppose we could.
Or settle this once and forever.
I want to ask you something, brother.
Omar listening.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole - I'm going to the West.
All right.
Peace out.
All right.
Here we go.
Yo, I need some face time with the man.
Hold on, I'll holler back at you, man.
That'd be Shamrock.
Assuming Stringer Bell is the man, now we wait for the return call.
This is beautiful.
Lester, can you actually believe we fucking sold the wiretaps to the targets? For a week at least.
Maybe we ducked a bullet.
Maybe we clean this mess quietly, throw some horseshit at whatever reporter shows up and the mayor forgives and forgets.
We're ready to move on this, right? As soon as we get the word, we shut down all three zones.
There'll be nothing left before midnight shift.
So what the fuck are we waiting on for a day and half? Why isn't the Hall calling us? - Mayor's Office.
Commissioner Burrell for Mayor Royce.
I've heard enough.
Hold on, Coleman.
Let the man talk.
Excuse me, Mayor.
I have Commissioner Burrell on the line.
He says it's urgent.
I'll bet it is.
He wants to move, Clarence.
He wants to clean this shit up yesterday, and so do we.
Tell him to hold.
Go ahead, Gene.
Look, I'm not a politician, I'm an academic.
From a public health perspective there are remarkable things happening in the free zones.
Needle exchanges, on-site blood testing, condom distribution.
We're interacting with an at-risk community that is largely elusive.
We're even talking some of them into drug treatment.
That's just what UM and Bon Secours have brought to the table.
If this were sanctioned, my department could put public resources into play.
You people can't see the forest here.
Odell? When the story breaks, the ministers will surely be against you.
And most of the City Council will be walking sideways away from your administration.
And my guess is the governor and the legislature will use this opportunity to piss on the city from a great height.
And Washington? Oooh.
Can you imagine how far the United States Department of Justice is gonna crawl up your ass behind this? Crime is down, Odell.
Medical people are telling me this could work.
I mean, a 14% decline in felonies citywide, I might be untouchable on this.
Look, we need to think.
See if we can keep this going without calling it what it really is.
Jesus.
Now, there's got to be a way.
I want you to talk this thing out.
Erv, thanks for holding.
Yes, but Yes, I understand.
Then I'll wait to hear from you.
We're to hold off on any action in Hamsterdam.
No arrests, no movement until further notice.
He says he wants to regroup, determine the most effective course of action.
Translate that for me, will you, Erv? I don't speak his fucked-up lingo.
Royce is figuring a way to put all of us in the guillotine and keep the blood from spraying anywhere near the Hall.
Shit, I'll be goddamned if I'm gonna go out like that.
Bent over in public.
I can spin the story just as well as that motherfucker.
You're gonna go to the press? - Not me.
But I know a slick little bastard who will happily put His Honor's shit in the street.
Something funny about that? I look in the paper, and I see all these Federal grants, but nothing for B&B.
You're expecting what? - Payout.
A big payout for what we put in, man.
Federal dollars on them Howard Street rehabs.
You gave money up front? - $250,000, yeah.
To Clay Davis.
How you know? What you saying? He's running game? - No, hell, no, he ain't that brazen.
Mm-mm.
Let me guess.
He's told you about the faucet.
Or was it the goose that laid the golden egg? You ever actually meet the man? Did you see any of your cash reach anyone in authority? I met the guy at the Federal Building.
Yeah? What office? He came down to the lobby.
He rainmade you.
A guy says if you pay him, he can make it rain.
You pay him.
If and when it rains, he takes the credit.
If and when it doesn't, he finds reasons for you to pay him more.
Clay Davis rainmade you.
No, man.
He got them building permits in no time at all, man.
We bribing these motherfuckers.
He got the city contractor's money back.
How much? - $35,000 so far.
On the quarter-million? - It's for bribing the motherfuckers.
There are no bribes! You really think a State Senator is going to risk his salary and his position by walking into a Federal office with a briefcase full of drug money? I seen Chunky, Chunky Coates.
He gets his money same way everyone does.
He fills out applications, checks the plans, then prays like hell.
This is an old game in this town.
And Clay Davis? That ganef was born with his hand in someone's pocket.
I just wish you'd run it by me sooner.
Now here's Shamrock returning Bodie's call.
Talk about it.
The man said he'd see you same time as always.
During the first call, Sydnor had eyes on Shamrock over in West Baltimore.
All right? Now look at this.
At the time, Stringer Bell was at the print shop.
So it couldn't be a face-to-face meet.
We didn't catch a call between Stringer and Shamrock.
How can that be? Stringer's phone isn't on the same network as everyone below him.
Right you are, ma'am.
Bell's not using Bernard's burners.
And Shamrock has a separate phone for calling Bell.
We can't hear those calls because the system's compartmentalised.
Some tricky motherfuckers.
A week or so up on Bernard's phones and we'll have everybody, up to and including Shamrock, tangled up in conspiracy counts.
But Bell or Barksdale? Not unless we can pluck their cell numbers out of the air.
Where you headed? - Toy store.
He legalised drugs in special zones? - It's more than that.
Major Colvin lost the necessary perspective that is required for command.
Now, we were all under pressure to reduce crime before year-end, and he responded poorly to that pressure.
Pressure by who? Mayor? I'm just explaining to you that the pressure was applied all down the line, from Headquarters to the district commanders, to the shift and sector supervisors.
So Colvin's 14% decline was bullshit.
And they're selling drugs with police permission in Western? The Department is ready to shut that mess down with mass arrests.
I'm on top of it.
Why don't you move? The mayor says wait.
Why? I think he's gonna make some kind of show, spin it so that I take the weight for something that has nothing to do with me, and everything to do with the pressure that my commanders were getting from City Hall.
Going public and putting the responsibility for this back at City Hall is the only move I have left, right? I mean, I spin Royce before he spins me.
And you want me to - No, not you.
Your pal, Tony Gray.
If he's gonna take a run at Royce, he's gonna need ammunition, right? I don't have a relationship with Gray.
I do have one with you.
And, Councilman, you owe me.
What's up, hotshot? - I got a technical question.
Remember those units we used to use to get cell numbers? CF-something-something.
Cell frequency identification device.
The Triggerfish.
That one.
It could flag a number.
Right.
With the old machines, we had to follow the guy while he used the phone.
New digitals? Bing.
You just pull the number right off the cell tower.
You got any that Daddy can borrow? - What about yours? - What? City has three of them, I remember right.
Homeland Security sent them to you, every big county department.
No fucking way.
Thanks.
I doubted you.
I told you it was big.
If we play it right.
He wants me to turn the information over to Tony Gray.
He figures if Tony's running against the mayor, he'll aim at Royce, not the Department.
You may want to bring Tony in on it, keep him viable against the mayor.
But you need to find out what this is all about.
First-hand.
Do you know this Major Colvin? - To shake hands, maybe.
If Burrell's painting him the villain, Colvin might be anxious to tell his side of the story.
McNulty, Major Crimes.
Sullivan, minor irritations.
You got anything that's like a CFID, but digital? For catching cell numbers.
Catching who? - A Triggerfish machine.
Triggerfish.
For cell numbers.
How about I look around there on my own? This is Councilman Carcetti at the Hall.
I'm trying to reach Major Colvin.
He's on vacation.
I'm trying to reach him on municipal business.
I can put you through to his voicemail.
No, I said I have to reach him immediately.
Immediately? - Right.
How about his cell phone? - His cell? Yeah, that would be fine.
All right, that's enough.
Yeah, I know, it hurts.
But your fists gonna be like rocks after a while.
Justin, come here.
All right, I want you to push me in my chest.
You ain't got to do it hard.
That's how you were standing.
No weight on your back foot.
That's right.
No center of gravity.
Plus, if you get your stance right, then you got the means to put your hip into the punch.
Bah-bah.
Right? Bah-bah.
That's where your power'll come from.
Yeah.
What happen when we get hit? - Say what? - We get hit, even with this pad, you gonna get trucked.
All this stuff falling apart.
Yeah, the heavy bag too.
Yeah, where you get this stuff at? The town of Bedrock? Nah, he say nobody.
So you gonna have to wait.
What you mean, wait? You know who I am, boy? - Man say he want to see Avon.
Making me wait to see my partner.
He new, String.
Fuck that.
Lot of new faces round here, man.
Way too many, you ask me.
Get the fuck out of here.
Where Avon at? - He'll be along shortly.
That's good, 'cause I came to see you, anyway.
What you need? I need you to hit somebody.
Who we hitting? - Clay Davis.
The Clay Davis? Downtown Clay Davis? Is that suppose to mean something to me, man? - That nigger need to be got.
Shit, String, murder ain't no thing.
But this here is some assassination shit.
I tell you you getting somebody, you getting him.
Damn, String, I don't know I got to remind you who the fuck you work for? Hey, yo.
I think Slim gonna have to sit this one out, boss.
So you finna go hit a State senator now? Dawg, you kill a downtown nigger like that, the whole world gonna stand up and take notice.
I'm talking about the state police, federals, all of that.
You need a Day Of The Jackal type motherfucker for that shit, - not a rumble-tumble nigger like Slim.
That nigger took our money, man.
I seen it coming.
Well, he got to go.
You a fucking businessman.
Handle it like that.
You don't wanna get all gangster wild with it and shit, right? What I tell you about playing them fucking away games? Yeah.
They saw your ghetto ass coming from miles away, nigger.
You got a fucking beef with them? That shit is on you.
So, we aim this at the nearest cell tower, the one that would be the conduit for calls coming to and from our boy, Bell andwe let rip.
Fucking hell.
Looks like Baltimore White Pages without any names.
But the pattern tracer'll pull that down.
If we know the approximate time of Bell's call, we could start by pulling calls off that tower at that time.
That could be thousands.
Yeah, but we get a second hit and that list comes down to dozens.
And after a third or fourth - We've got his number.
I can't believe that this was just sitting over at ISD, gathering dust.
We're going to be on them for real now.
Well, they don't know about this technology yet.
For once they can't change and adjust.
It's genius.
Oh happy day Oh happy day When Jesus washed When Jesus washed He washed my sins away Need something? - How much you make, man? - What? On them Ts? How much you make? Fair profit.
No more than that.
You should sell sweats with hoodies.
Since the season's changing and all.
Where you live at? - Bodie Broadus.
The man with the hands.
I heard you was opening up a gym or something.
Yeah, trying to.
I'm looking to get up with Avon.
Thought you was out.
Hey, man, that's why I came to you.
I mean, I feel like the way we left it, I can't just roll up on the man, you know? Hey, yo, it's me.
Yo, I got that hitter here with me.
Yeah, the soldier that walked in and out.
He want to see the top man.
You slam shit like that, you gonna fall out one day.
I'm good.
I'm trying to school you, boy, and you just don't wanna know.
I'm cool.
I'm good.
Whitey sale, whitey sale.
One for three, three for five.
Whitey sale.
Whitey sale, whitey sale, whitey sale, here.
One for three, three for five.
So what you want me to tell the man? Yo, I'll give word up, then I'll hit you back.
Shamrock.
B&B Enterprises.
We need to have lunch.
All right, hold on.
I'll call you back.
Yo.
Hey, it's me.
What's good? Yeah, it's me.
Yo, tell the hitter, tell him the tall man will pick him up.
Right.
4:47.
Seven-minute window.
There's 892 phone numbers.
That's our base line.
We're on our way.
Yeah.
Stay the fuck there, man.
Yo.
Jimmy! On the clean phone.
He just hit your friend's number.
The one off the business card you gave me.
The Western? - His cell.
Should we be worried about this? No.
A boxing gym, huh? - Ain't a proper one yet.
That's why I asked to see you.
What you know about taking care of something like that? Not a damn thing.
But I know that sweet science.
And I got some kids who are interested.
But what I got a need for, bro, is equipment.
Man, these kids gonna get rained on.
They need headgear, they need guards, cups, so they can take the hit.
You know what I'm saying, man.
I seen you on them Globe posters back in the day.
Little undercard shit.
Yeah, but still, you was Golden Gloves.
For a minute, but I had a physical defect.
What, you got a glass jaw? - Nah, forehead, nigger.
Cranium shot'll do you wrong.
Yo, look here, man.
You see the new heavy bags? Look, freestanding, man.
All you gotta do is add water.
Then you got speed bags, right there, right? You got this headgear right here.
It's new.
Look, protect the cheek and the chin, you know? And I know I can go around and collect a dollar here and a dollar there.
But I'm trying to put together a select group of people.
I call them my Gold Circle Club, and they gonna make a substantial contribution and just get this thing rolling right.
I mean, I'm gonna put their name and picture up on the wall in the gym.
You trying to get me to join a club? - No, man, I'm just saying.
There's all sorts of levels.
We got the Silver Club, we got the Bronze Club.
Man, for motherfuckers who really don't want to dig that deep.
Come on, man, check it out.
No, man.
I ain't got no time for this bullshit, man.
I don't want my fucking name and face on no damn wall.
You crazy, nigger? How much money you talking about? See him go through all that for 10,000? Man, Slim, go get him 15,000 cash, man.
Yo! Shit.
All right.
Later, man.
You take care of them little niggers.
No doubt, bro.
Yeah.
Yo, you talk to him? Fat man wanna parlay.
All right, you good.
Hook me up.
Yeah, all right.
You check out what I sent you? Yeah, your information's good.
So, we can talk on the real side now, huh? - Tell your man I'm good for tomorrow.
Yo, I'll hit you back.
Now we're cooking.
Cutting butter with a hot knife.
Next time Stringer Bell takes a call off the base line, he's ours.
Game over.
Mm-hm.
So, it ain't what it might seem to you.
That man there is my brother.
But if it keep on like it been, then Fuck.
You got problems? I stirred up some shit with this Hamsterdam mess.
That's 'cause you was behind that that made me come to you with this.
Look like you and me both trying to make sense of this game.
Speak your mind, Russell.
You two good? Yeah.
We got y'all out front.
Let's go, P-Square.
You look healthy.
For a man who was gut-shot.
You reached out to a third party who engaged me in the purpose of holding your Towers.
That third person's word was your word, as he represented you.
That's right.
And I ran those East Baltimore gentlemen off.
I held up my end of the agreement, at least for as long as I was physically able.
You did.
Your man then set up a meet at Butchie's bar.
Your man told Omar Little that I was responsible for the torture of a young boy who was close to Mr.
Little's heart.
Your man, in effect, sought to have me hit.
Omar told you that and you believe that motherfucker? He doesn't strike me as a man who would tell stories.
Even at the point of dying.
Shit.
Proposition Joe package.
The inner workings of your organization don't concern me.
If there's a way, I mean, if my man If he made a mistake here, then I'm willing to pay the cost.
How can we fix it? You want money? - Money? - Yeah, this is business.
Business is where you are now.
But what got you here is your word and your reputation.
With that alone, you've still got an open line to New York.
Without it, you're done.
My man's still on paper.
I can put him in a spot that got heavy artillery.
I ain't talking about pistols.
I'm talking about mini TEC-9s, shotguns, they even got grenades in that motherfucker.
That's an automatic fall.
So, I'm hoping you could keep that shit to five.
If you hit the joint, his people will try and take the rap for it, say all that firepower is theirs.
So all you gotta do is just hit him with the parole backup.
Look, I can't make no promises.
It's gonna be a nickel at least.
Come on, man.
Him and me - I'm gonna do my best, all right? He's always at this place? No, he come and go.
But it's the spot since the war started.
He must have done something to you.
No, it's just business.
Almost forgot.
This came in for you last night.
Said she called your cell phone but no answer.
Had a nice voice.
Like a kitty cat.
We're on.
He said for you to be there, half-pint.
Yeah, OK.
Stringer Bell, that's him.
There it is.
Yeah, but for how long? He could toss that burner at any moment.
I got Rhonda, you raise Daniels.
OK.
Ronnie? We're on Stringer's phone.
Lieutenant.
Go to the judge.
I'll meet you there with an affidavit.
Lester's raising Daniels.
McNulty's calling Pearlman.
Watch that footwork, baby.
All right.
Take it to him, now.
Yeah.
Take it to him, now.
I'm a beast, coach.
All right, boy, don't be gloating on it.
When we gonna have some real fights, one of them tournament things? - Yeah, we gladiators, son.
Y'all got more fire than skills.
You ain't ready for no full-blown thing just yet.
But I don't know, maybe it'd be good for y'all to spar with some boys you don't know.
A nigger step in my house, he getting dropped.
I met these fellas at that gym over on Pennsylvania Avenue.
I'll see if they wanna roll through, all right? All right? You don't return a Councilman's calls? I'm off this week.
Taking a little accrued vacation.
Yeah.
And I heard why.
I'm here for your side of this story.
If I can't get that, then whatever comes out of Burrell's mouth is gonna stand.
You good with that? What did you do, Major? And why the fuck haven't they shut it down? We've seen that law enforcement's steamroller approach is just spitting in the wind! I really think that you're onto something here, but if you keep it up, they'll be calling you the most dangerous man in America.
I know it may appear that we're vulnerable here, huh? But if we enforce the drug laws everywhere else in the city aggressively, how can they say we're not a law and order administration? Now there's got to be a middle ground here that we have yet to find.
There's got to be some way to accomplish this without turning everything upside down.
This used to be one of my worst corners.
This is where a cop got shot last summer, right? - Dozerman.
Looks quiet now.
So do most all my corners.
G- man.
So, what's up? - Shut the door.
In ten minutes we're gonna have an affidavit for a City judge to sign.
It's for Russell Bell's dirty cell.
It's a good pull.
It is if Bay Wireless doesn't take five days to process it.
You owe me, Fitz.
That whole port case came down early behind some ugly shit in your house.
Now, I don't care how you do it, but I need my wire today.
These guys were in radio cars two months ago, chasing calls, clearing corners.
I pulled them to do felony follow-up.
More police work, less bullshit, and that's why my crime is down.
The numbers are true.
What did he do? - Church burglaries, 14 of them.
Let's go.
Mademoiselle.
Is it "aff-e-ant" or affiant? I've never been clear on that.
You been hunting this guy Bell for a long time, haven't you, Jimmy? A while, yeah.
Name's familiar to me.
That thing that we did a few years back, was he the Yeah.
What's done is done, Jimmy.
Now, for your own fucking sake, just let it go.
Come on.
As the affiant, do you solemnly swear that the information contained in this document That's the most significant drop in crime in this district in recent history.
We still got hard-looking boys out on them streets.
And, Sergeant, you know them little mini-motorcycles? - They keeping me up at night.
We're working on that.
I have been living in this part of the city my whole life.
I can tell you something.
We weren't any angels when we were kids.
And those hard boys you talking about, half of them, they's just playing gangster.
They ain't no different from what we were.
Shirts and drawers a little longer, is all.
The one thing I do miss about my neighborhood, the neighborhood I came up in See, we knew the police.
See? We had a white police officer.
Our house was on his beat, on his foot beat.
He would be sitting out talking to my mother damn near every night, just sitting out on her stoop, just talking.
And I'm telling you, this man, his name was Frazier O'Leary.
He even knew my grandmother by name.
Yes, ma'am.
Let's move on to the tip-line information I'm so sorry, baby, but I was not finished.
You see, let me tell you something.
I have not seen that face-to-face policing in a long while.
In a very long while.
Until last week.
A young officer, black officer, came by my stoop, gave me his card.
His name is Reggie Ballard, is his name, right? And he sat, and he talked to me.
We just talked.
And, see, now I know his name and face and he knows my name and face.
You see? And I'm going to tell you something.
That is how it should be.
My son wanna open up a snowball stand on the street.
Do we need a permit for this? You ever seen a West Side community meeting like this one? The folks downtown tell me that stands aren't allowed in the city right-of-way at all.
Now they do say it's possible to have a snowball stand behind the sidewalk.
Why are you really down here, Councilman? - I mean, this ain't even your district.
I'm interested.
And I have the public safety subcommittee.
You see that building there? It was the old Stryker building, it was a funeral parlor.
The last stop before the cemetery for West Side white folk back when there were still some around.
Right about the time that Jim Crow was breaking up back in the early '60s, somebody asked old man Stryker, they said, "Stryker, "you gonna change your policy and start burying black folk?" And Stryker said, "Yeah, on one condition.
"That I can do them all at once.
" That's sick.
But you know something? I had a lot of respect for that man.
'Cause, unlike most folks, I always knew where he stood.
I'm doing my job.
Look, I done showed you the good.
Come on, let me show you the ugly.
Hey.
How come so quick? - Stringer Bell's given name.
Russell.
For now, Ahmed.
We're on the top of the mountain.
Red tops over here.
Come get them, come get them.
This is it? - One of three.
How did you make this happen? I just did it.
I got tired of hearing folks talk about what needed to be done or what they would do if it was up to them.
So, this is about you making a mark? No, I ain't analyzed it all that deep.
I ain't claiming no kind of victory, neither.
I will say I'm glad I tried.
Go on, Councilman.
I'll wait for you down here.
You're not coming? Now, what you gonna see ain't pretty.
But it's safe.
I think you need to take this journey your own self.
Yeah.
Better deal on those yellow tops.
Yellow tops right here.
I ordered one for you.
Thanks.
Surprised I called? - A little.
After the way we left it.
I'm a type A, Jimmy.
People like me break things.
When I slow down, or when I take a minute to think about it, I Is that your idea of an apology? I didn't drive an hour up 95 to apologize.
I missed you.
I missed you too, I guess.
Seems a long way to come just to tell me that, then turn around and drive back down to DC.
I'm not driving back tonight.
So what's going on? Are you working on a case? Mm-hm.
It's a good one.
How about you? Anything interesting? I did hear a crazy Baltimore story, you know, through the rumor mill of Washington.
Really? - Some renegade police commander takes it on himself to I don't know, legalise drugs in the precinct? Mayor doesn't even know about it? - Can you believe that? - Crazy story.
Someone I think it's Colvin.
You know him? No, I can't say that I do.
Still, I think it's funny that some water-cooler talker down in DC knows any Baltimore cop's name.
I was just wondering.
Listen, I'm - You're leaving? - Yeah, I think so.
Good night.
Damn, man, I miss this crib already.
Well, you spending a lot of time at the other spot doing what you gotta do, huh? Yeah.
Man, it's a shame we got to deal with this Marlo bullshit, man.
If I had taken care of that earlier, man - There's always gonna be a Marlo, man.
No Marlo, no game.
But you could've dealt with that shit a little sooner, yeah, but don't let it lay on you like that.
Tonight, I mean, I'm gonna kick back and just enjoy this view.
I mean, look at this shit.
Can you fucking believe this? I got a crib that's overlooking the harbor.
We used to run through this motherfucker, we had every security guard in there following us.
As they should have.
True, true.
And then there was that one time - Toy store? I told your ass not to steal the badminton set.
What you gonna do with a fucking net and a racket and we ain't got no yard.
You like, "Yo, that white boy ain't gonna chase after me.
" - He sure did, though.
Then he's there.
I said, "What the fuck?" - He was like Carl Lewis.
Fists was balled up.
Your ass was running too, fast as you could.
Punching yourself in the chest looking all mad and shit.
Argh! That shit was crazy, man.
Right here too, man, right there.
Goddamn.
Imagine, if I had the money that I have now, I could have bought half this waterfront property.
God damn it.
Forget about that for a while, man.
You know, just dream with me.
We ain't gotta dream no more, man.
We got real shit, real estate, that we can touch.
I can't get too fucked up tonight, man.
I got some shit I gotta do on the site tomorrow.
Plus, the fucking Polack we got working for us, man, I gotta pull his coat.
If he had anything to do with that Clay Davis bullshit, I'm gonna have to cut his money, little faggot.
What time y'all meeting? Er What time? 12, I think.
Why? You need me to do something for you? No, I'm just seeing where you going to be at.
You need to relax more, man.
Well, when the time is right, I will.
You know, I don't take my work too seriously.
That's right.
It's just business.
Us, motherfucker.
Us, man.
Get him, Andre, go get him.
Come on, Spider, you gotta swing on him.
Easy, easy, easy.
All right? - I'm good, I'm good.
Ditty, you up.
Why didn't you hit him back? You, Justin.
Come on, boy, I'm calling your name.
Listen up.
We gonna have three two-minute rounds.
Watch the low blows.
Touch gloves.
And Let's go, Justin.
Justin, come on.
That's good, that's good.
Straight shot, come on.
Keep your hands up, Justin.
Come on, man.
Come on.
You gotta block that.
He leading left and punching right, Justin.
Move towards his weak side.
He only come up to your waist.
Man, bell.
That was a quick two minutes.
Yeah, I know.
Get you some water, boy, and spit it out.
You all right? - Dizzy.
That's why the hell I keep telling you you got to breathe, boy.
So, what? You had enough? - No, I'm good.
All right, all right.
Let's go, Justin.
Let's go, Justin! Jab, Justin.
Gotta jab.
Hm.
Hey, we're up.
Here it is.
It's me, man.
You heard from the fat man? - Yeah.
We low, right? - One mark shy of the mark.
Yeah, it's light.
Cherry say it's light.
Tell the man I'm doing what needs doing.
All right, I'll tell him.
Oh, and that other thing? - What? - Them two hitters you asked after.
They good with it.
Not on the phone.
That's it.
We got it! Good work.
I guess this is pertinent.
Ain't no need to go back out.
You ain't got to prove nothing.
Shoot, my momma hit me harder than that.
I still got a chance, he getting tired.
Drink and spit.
Ready.
You more than ready, boy.
You game, rooster.
Let's go, Justin! - Is there an alley entrance? - Boarded up on both sides.
So we gonna have to go through the front.
That's a change for you, isn't it? You just be ready, Bow Tie.
You know what I'm talking about? Breathe, boy.
Breathe.
Touch gloves.
How'd I do? - You still got plenty to learn.
But on the heart side? You did good.
Go on home, soldier.
You done for the day.
I can see it all clearly now.
Between you and them subcontractors and that motherfucking politician, y'all had me in a spin, right? - Mr.
Bell, I don't know - Little man! We gonna get all this shit sorted out.
And if the shit don't come up right, one way or another you gonna pay for this shit.
I understand you're angry but we've made progress in here.
I don't know what passed between you and Senator Davis, but if you're unhappy with Clayton's performance - Shit.
Oh, God.
Oh, God, no.
God, no.
I ain't strapped.
Look, man, I ain't involved.
I ain't involved in that gangster bullshit no more.
What y'all niggers want, man? Huh? Money? Is that it? 'Cause if it is, man, I can be a better friend to y'all alive.
You still don't get it, do you? Huh? This ain't about your money, bro.
Your boy gave you up.
That's right.
And we ain't had to torture his ass, neither.
It seem like I can't say nothing to change y'all minds.
Well, get on with it, mother
Who's got the scene? - Massey and Crutchfield.
Norris is on his way to the morgue.
He'll beat the bodies there.
How about the crime lab? - Can he get enough oxygen? He's getting the full treatment, boss.
We're good there.
Just one witness so far.
And you know what that means.
Right now, it's all BNBG.
It's Andy Kraw's big adventure.
Mayor's office already called twice, worried sick about the man.
You're kidding me.
That's a whole lot of campaign contributions sitting on the back of that ambo.
So, what's the scene say? - Two shooters.
Shotgun, semi-auto.
One vic is a West Side soldier with a pretty healthy sheet.
The other is a major player in Daniels' wiretap case.
So, a hit.
Drug related.
But a big-time developer in the middle? What's the fit? Second vic, Russell Bell.
Owner and co-developer of this here.
And other downtown real estate.
Well-propertied man he was.
But you were aware that Russell Bell was regarded as a major narcotic violator? How do you think he made his money? I didn't inquire.
So, you never got a look at either of the gunmen? I told you, I saw only the one of them.
He was black.
Big, I thought.
With a large weapon.
BNBG.
Big negro, big gun.
Two more like it upstairs.
Yeah? Have ballistics rush comparisons.
Drug-relateds for the last six months.
I caught him, Bunk.
On the wire.
I caught him.
And he doesn't fucking know it.
When you walk through the garden You gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole He got fire and the fury Fire and fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry Hold on to Jesus' hands Oh, we'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls Oh You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down Way down in the hole Boxing, yeah.
I know you loved that.
I hated it.
I hated watching it.
Yeah, I know you did.
So you're doing good, huh? - Day to day, I am.
Because I was thinking, maybe I'm proud of you, Dennis.
Be well.
Shut that fucking door.
Man, fuck it.
I'm ready for this shit.
These niggers is snapping on us.
You see? Do you believe this fucking shit? Some shit like this would've never happened with Yo, Slim, man.
Just say the word.
Say the motherfucking word.
Shit is on.
What's up, B? You all right? We gonna bounce back on the motherfucker no question.
Bounce back on who? - Marlo, boss.
Oh, he gonna fall.
Marlo ain't got shit to do with it.
Marlo couldn't get String like that.
String died cos of some other shit.
What? - He died because of some other shit, nigger.
I couldn't fix it.
I tried.
That nigger, String, was right about this shit, man.
That nigger was right.
Fuck Marlo.
Fuck this fucking war.
All this beef over a couple of fucking corners.
Don't matter who did what to who at this point.
Fact is, we went to war, and now there ain't no going back.
I mean, shit, it's what war is, you know? Once you in it, you in it.
If it's a lie, then we fight on that lie.
But we gotta fight.
Got this out of his pocket.
I got no idea.
It's a cell chip from a phone.
Ah.
What else did you get off him? - 200 cash, set of keys, license.
President Street address? I got Landsman banging out a warrant for the place.
Fuck the politics for a minute.
What if the man happens to be right? - Legalising drugs? Crime is down in his district and the people there are OK with it.
Look, if you don't exist, what happens here? If there's no Tommy Carcetti, what's likely to happen? The mayor and Burrell shut this thing down.
I figure the mayor's trying to find a way to shut it down to make it look like it was an enforcement plan.
Otherwise he'd have moved to end it already.
Makes sense, but no matter what, Colvin's little experiment is finished.
Come on, Tommy.
They dealt you a winning hand and you're acting like you forgot how to play.
Mr.
Mayor, call it legalisation and my office can't live with it.
Agreed.
No one can.
But harm reduction? That could sell, provided there's a reduction in the crime rate.
Harm reduction.
Sounds good.
Steven, what if we were able to suggest limiting our street-level enforcement? We were concentrating our resources on high-level traffickers.
How would that play? If I could show off that kind of casework, maybe.
But they've been doing street rips for so long, I don't think a high level exists.
What if we said no major traffickers were allowed in the free zone, that all major That the major violators were still being targeted? Are you suggesting some kind of admissions criteria for the zones? - How would that work? - I don't know that it would.
I'm just saying that for the sake of public perception.
Come on, people, work with me on this thing! Fucked up, man.
Marlo need to get his ass dropped, him and all his crew.
They gonna fall, son.
You'll see.
All right, let me know.
That's the word on the wire, anyway.
Every mention puts it on Marlo Stanfield's crew, which means the war's gonna ratchet up, no question.
Where's Jimmy? - He went with Bunk Moreland to rifle Stringer's spot downtown.
How'd he take it? - Like Stringer was kin.
Yeah? - Bushy top.
Need to pull on your coat, boy.
Hey, what's up, Major? I got something for y'all.
Mount Vernon Square in about an hour.
I'm there.
This is Stringer's? Yeah.
Who the fuck was I chasing? What's done is done.
Gay-ass gangsters.
Please.
I tell you, I took it for as long as I could.
Let's go, man.
Let's go.
It being your town, I trust you to do it proper.
You off today, boss? - Every day at this point.
I told them over at COMSTAT about my little experiment.
Bosses went crazy, huh? Anyway, that's why I called you.
That there is a wartime lay-up for your man Barksdale.
My sources tell me the man's there most of the time with a lot of muscle.
Sawed-offs, semi-autos, MAC-11s.
Whole lot of good shit if you hit it right.
That's a hell of a tip.
Shit.
That right there might be the last bit of police work in a long and storied career.
Glad I talked to you, bushy top.
Which one is Ali? In the white trunks, boy.
Damn, he look young.
He was.
This the Patterson fight.
Old school.
Who Patterson? He soft.
Ali whipping his ass.
He was a champ too.
Look, any man still standing at the end of a round, you can't call him soft.
That's a rule, all right? From Stringer's place downtown.
B&B shit, college papers, real estate stuff.
There's no phone extension in the place, just these cellphone chips.
About a hundred of them.
So that's why he wasn't taking any phones from Bernard, huh? Stringer just changed the number every time he changed the chip.
Shamrock too, probably.
Cautious man.
Yes and no.
Have a look in here.
All different manufacturers.
Thank you.
Before Stringer Bell got aced, he went out of his way to put in his good friend, Avon Barksdale.
That's a Barksdale safe house.
Where'd you get this? Colvin.
Calls to the Western.
Where's Daniels? He's got this thing downtown.
It's for his wife.
You should raise him.
It's not enough to make up for Stringer.
It'll do for now.
Because the neighborhoods and the residents are among the poorest in our city, and it is these residents who most need a strong voice at City Hall.
Time has come for a change.
And I believe I can bring about that change by providing a strong voice for the new 11th District, if you will do me the honor It's kind of cool, the lieutenant's wife running for office, you know? As you just heard, West Baltimore City Councilwoman Eunetta Perkins is going to have her hands full in next September's Democratic primary.
Stringer Bell.
Damn.
Who could've gotten to him? I mean, if it wasn't y'all on it.
You know Avon's gonna put it on you, right? Shit, let him take it on my jacket.
Don't make me no never mind.
I'm thinking it might be what you call one of them good problems.
Yeah.
Mm-hm.
I heard Colvin's in deep shit downtown.
Looking at this right here he might not be the only one.
Anything comes up, I'm on the radio.
My man.
Yo, you think I could get like $5? I need like $5 to get on the bus.
I look like a tourist to you? - Man, I swear to God.
Looking like that in an open-air drug market, why the hell would I think you'll spend my $5 on bus fare? Shit, because I already got my blast, man.
All night, you been drinking like your ass is candy.
That's shameful shit.
Last time I saw that kind of load was the Pimlico double.
And I fucking know that motherfucker was in the middle of that mess.
And if I remember your boy, he had no love for the Barksdale people.
Execution style, that don't play like Omar Little.
Besides, the word on our wire is that Marlo's people did Stringer.
Marlo Stanfield? - The heir apparent.
This city's going to hell, man.
We're gonna push past 300 murders before New Year's.
Shit is fucked.
Hey, Cheryl.
No? My guess is she's picking up a prisoner.
I spoke to her about ten minutes ago.
Yeah, well, they make you check your stuff.
Cellphone, money, weapon.
She'll call when she gets the message.
Not at all.
I need more, Jimmy.
More! - Motherfucker.
I'm tired, Bunk.
Let's go.
I heard the vanguard met.
Heard they voted to have a civilian review board look at it.
It wasn't unanimous, and there were people there speaking for you.
I heard that too.
So, six out of ten black officers think I'm just an asshole racist.
On the other hand, four out of ten think you're just an asshole.
It's an administrative charge.
You can fight it and win if you want.
Failure to properly identify myself as a police officer.
Sounds like what I was guilty of most of my career, actually.
I'm not sure I was supposed to be a police.
Not really.
What were you supposed to be, huh? Hm? This is from Major Colvin's CI? What's the corroboration? The source knew that Barksdale had a waterfront condo in his own name.
Gave the accurate location and title info down to deed of transfer.
That's good, but it puts him on the legitimate side of things.
What corroboration is there for illegal activities? Sorry I'm late.
I had to stop in at a friend.
The source knew that Barksdale was shot last month, wounded in the shoulder.
Emergency room? - No.
No hospital reports.
We're gonna need better.
Either Colvin goes back to the CI, or we sit on this address for a while.
Well, fuck it, then.
Let's name the source in the affidavit.
It's Colvin's call, isn't it? - It's Stringer Bell.
Lester figured it out from the DNRs.
Bell was snitching out Barksdale.
You're sure of this? - Maybe that explains the murder.
What's in the wire? Loose talk about how it was Marlo's people, but nothing past rumor.
With Bell gone, Barksdale might have to oversee the day-to-day, and maybe that puts him in contact with some of our monitored cellphones.
If he's as cautious as Stringer, maybe not.
My guess is Barksdale never touches a cellphone.
Safe house might be our best shot.
All right.
We stay on the wires until this batch of burners goes dead, hoping we have Barksdale.
But meanwhile, we get a warrant for that safe house and wait on him there.
Thanks for the cover last night.
This is Greggs, Major Case Unit.
Who's the shift leader? Get a wildcat right now! Brown! What's up? Anybody want to buy? Blue John! Get yo ass caught, boy! Holy Christ.
They're all over it, Commissioner.
Right.
That was Foxtrot.
The cameras have found our little shit pile.
Your fucking councilman took his sweet time.
Everyone's a critic.
If this doesn't go, what line of work are you gonna try next? We're here in West Baltimore For more than a month, police from Baltimore's Western district It's an outrageous development.
It's something I never thought I'd see from this administration.
We need a change in leadership in this city.
Did the mayor or the police commissioner know? Ask the mayor and the police commissioner.
On crime and safety, the Royce administration is simply bankrupt.
You gonna announce for mayor next month? Standing here today looking at this, I'm gonna put it out there right now.
For more than four weeks the Baltimore Police Department surrendered areas to the drug trade, and the council was not informed.
Fuck me.
I fucking had this story all to myself a week ago.
Police officers have turned a blind eye What the fuck was I thinking? .
.
apparently sanctioning open-air drug markets.
Excuse us.
.
.
in the so-called free zones, drug dealers routinely ply their trade.
Mr.
Mayor, Commissioner Burrell is here.
The mayor will be with him shortly.
.
.
and young children run the streets alone.
The inhabitants of what has come to be known as Hamsterdam had little to say for the camera.
But Channel 5 has learned that the police were - Yeah? - What are you seeing? Couple of people in and out.
No sign of Barksdale, though.
It's quiet here too.
OK.
Need to look at the back.
Our friend Carcetti's gonna run wild with this.
And from the sound of things, Gray is gonna run with him.
Tony Gray thinks he's gonna get my chair behind this bullshit.
Uh-uh.
We're throwing you out of the boat, Ervin.
This shit is on you alone.
Not necessarily.
Not if I talk about how we were under pressure to keep the crime down.
To juke the stats district by district.
We never said that.
About how Colvin, under pressure, lost his way.
About how I came to you weeks ago - Days ago.
Weeks ago to tell you what he had done and to assure you that we were on top of the situation, that Colvin would be relieved and his plan aborted.
You lying motherfucker.
But you heard about the drop in Colvin's felony rate and you sent me packing.
Brought in your liberal-ass do-gooders to seriously consider this horseshit while Colvin's mistake grew and grew.
My hands were tied, Mr.
Mayor.
My department thwarted.
I was a prisoner of the goddamn politicians.
Or I leave your office right now willing to say a lot less than that.
I put what I can on crazy-ass Bunny Colvin.
And I take the hit.
And if Carcetti or Gray holds hearings, I'm the wall between them and you.
In which case, I am your commissioner for the full five-year term.
Unit one to unit two.
Unit two standing by.
Deal's made.
Unit two to sector three, move on the Winchester Homes.
Unit two to sector two, move on the Koppers Plant.
Roger that.
Over the top, gentlemen.
About fucking time.
Yo, man.
We gonna run out if we don't got no re-up.
Where's Tuckie at? - I don't know.
Yo, where Tuckie at, man? - He rolled out.
Huh? - He said the police coming.
Here they come.
Let's roll.
Let's go! Hold it right there! Get the fuck off me! Stop right there! Stop right there! Stop! Freeze! Freeze! Don't move! Hold it right there.
Freeze.
Outstanding, red team, outstanding.
Give you a case of beer for that one.
Son, this nigger, Stringer Bell, man, was begging Chris, yo, for real.
Like, digging in his pockets, talking about how much cheese he gonna give us I mean, if we just let him walk.
My man, Chris, hollering, "Man, bitch, you gonna die.
" This nigger just dropped to his fucking knees like a little cocksucker, man.
Start crying.
That shit was worse than fucking pathetic.
Yo, that's Marlo.
Get on your burner, man.
Got a line on him.
The number one? Where at? Tall man says to tell y'all to soldier up.
They up at the rim shop.
Yeah, all right.
Boss, you OK? - What you want? - Slim said they got their eye on Marlo.
Mm? I'm just saying, you know, all the boys, they all waiting on you.
Go ahead, man.
I'm behind you.
What else you need from us, Deputy? City Hall wants the bulldozers through here at dawn and fencing all around the site.
Winchester Homes and the Koppers Plant as well.
We got it.
Come tomorrow, the television reporters get nothing they can stand in front of.
Excuse me, Deputy, sir, we found a body.
Any trauma? - Can't tell for sure with all the rat bites.
Take him to the OCME in a jail wagon.
I don't want the fucking reporters seeing any ambos.
Shit.
He just landed.
Him plus one.
Got it.
Sit tight.
That makes how many? Including Barksdale, Sydnor counted ten in and none coming out, so that's ten at least.
2301 to KGA.
Go ahead, 2301.
We need QRT to meet us at our 20 for a search and seizure.
Location has multiple suspects and may contain automatic weapons.
Word travels fast, huh? - Shit.
Burrell called Johns Hopkins personally this morning.
Dragged your name into the gutter.
Johns Hopkins doesn't need the notoriety.
The chief academic officer of a major research university doesn't want to hear that some new hire makes up the rules as he goes along.
Yeah, Colvin.
Yeah, Major, you're on first.
Mm.
COMSTAT tomorrow.
I'm up.
You all taking the door? - Where's tactical? - I called for QRT.
You ain't heard? They're a little busy tonight tearing down Bunny Colvin's fuck-up.
With all that going on, you're lucky you even got us, man.
Who we hitting on this? - Avon Barksdale and crew.
I fucking told you he was out.
Didn't I fucking tell you? I fucking told them.
For more than four weeks the Baltimore Police Department surrendered areas to the drug trade.
By tomorrow, the story goes national, and Washington reacts.
Save the best questions for Tony Gray.
He needs to shine even more than you.
I can't believe he wants us to knock.
You can't flush guns, can you? What about if they open up on us? These guys are at war with another crew.
We go charging in there, chances are we will get lit up.
Yo, B.
Sham saying that Charles saying they still up at the rim shop.
Marlo, his boy Chris and Vinson, they still eating.
But the rest of the muscle, they rolled out.
Police.
No.
Shh.
Not the police.
Narcos out back too.
Shit.
Let us in! We know you're in there.
Shit.
Open the door, you fucking cocksuckers! - Fucked up, man.
Y'all ask me, y'all ugly-ass niggers shouldn't be in here with all these guns and shit, you know what I'm talking about? Open it.
Come on, Avon.
Enough with this shit.
Open the fucking door.
Open the fucking door, you cocksuckers! - Police! - Police! Police! Search warrant! - I'm clean, man.
Get down! - Lace them shits tight.
Greggs, I'm opening up.
That'd be mine.
In fact, all that's mine.
You got a law degree? A fuckin' hand grenade.
Take him.
You fall on the parole violation, no matter whatever else happens, you do every day of what's left of your seven without seeing a jury.
Maybe even conspiracy to murder.
We take this federal, see if we can't get you ten to life.
No parole.
Whatever.
Shit, you only do two days nohow - that's the day you go in And the day you come out.
Yeah, well, here's the warrant.
You read it slow.
In between them two days, give you something to think on.
Damn.
Missed our shot.
Roll, man.
You bend over for us, or I will spend what's left of my career shitting on every supervisor in your district.
From shift commanders down to sector sergeants, not one of them will have any rank at all if we hear anything out of you.
Look, my people saw this as a tactical deployment only! - The responsibility is mine alone! - Well, you won't fall alone, unless you're willing to fall exactly as we want you to.
After COMSTAT, you go to retirement services and drop papers, going out at a lieutenant's grade.
That's right, you're busted back.
We can't take your EOD away, but you're not going out on a major's pay.
I can retire with my 30 right now before you bust me! - I got vacation time enough to make my 30! - Fuck your vacation time.
You're out today at the lower grade.
That's against the goddamn contract! What part of "bend over" didn't you understand? - Avon locked up? - With most of his muscle, yeah.
Good day to get back out on them corners, ain't it? - Make some money.
You bet.
It's not just the 17 million in federal funding for law enforcement that you've jeopardised.
Take off another 200 million of federal money in your operating budget, another 75 in capital expenditures, plus untold millions in pass-through federal dollars from Annapolis.
All told, we're talking about half a billion a year that Baltimore will be doing without.
Furthermore, the US attorney here will use all the resources of the Justice Department to interdict and destroy any attempt to establish a geographic entity where drugs are legal.
Washington should know that what happened in West Baltimore in no way reflects the policies of my administration.
That was an aberration, Mr.
Thomas, the work of one misguided police official.
We understand your concerns, but, you know for the Deputy Drug Czar to take the time out to drive 30 miles north to deliver that message, hardly necessary.
Rest assured.
What up, G? Where the older ones at? Marlo got his package back out.
Fire Burrell.
This nonsense began in his shop without him knowing it! - Fire the man and move on.
Odell.
I respect your opinion, but right now, Tony Gray, Carcetti manoeuvring, now is not the time.
Mm-mm.
No.
We get past the primary, then I'll drive a stake in his heart.
But right now I need him where he is, if for no other reason than to well, to take the hit for this thing right here, but I tell you what I'm gonna do, though.
I'm gonna shine on that new girl you like in the 11th.
Yeah.
Give her a spot on the ticket.
Cut Eunetta loose.
Eunetta's had her day.
I respect the fact that you stood by me, Odell.
I respect loyalty.
And did so without properly informing his superior officers and without regard to the criminal statutes he was sworn to enforce, thereby disgracing himself and his command.
Is any of that subject to any contradiction or argument whatsoever, Major Colvin? - No, sir.
No argument at all, Bunny? Not much you can say, is there? Not to real police.
Get on with it, motherfucker.
Excuse me, Major? Is the admin-lieutenant present? Major Colvin is relieved of duty.
You are now the acting commander of the Western District.
Damn, Bernard, didn't I tell you about these guys? - Hey, Bunk.
Hey, Freamon.
Who's that, Crutchfield? - No, Norris.
Sleeping on a stakeout.
Yeah, that's everyone we heard on the wire.
McNulty's in number one with Pearlman.
Why don't you say hey? You got to be the stupidest motherfucker that I've ever gone out with.
I can't wait to go to jail.
What? What'd you say? What the fuck did you say, Bernard? Hmm.
Hey, Donald.
You heard the tapes.
He said we could sell drugs if we move down to Vincent Street, and that's where I moved my crew.
You were the one that popped me with the G-pack on my way to the spot, and let me go, remember? You were selling drugs in Major Colvin's free zone? - You can prove that? - Ask him.
He know.
This must be one of them contrapment things.
You mean entrapment? - Kid's got a point.
Ha! another eight wanted on warrants.
Any way you can tie your case to this mess with Colvin? Make it like what he was doing led to your thing? I don't see it.
Well, it's good work nonetheless, Major Daniels.
Call came in from the mayor's office half-hour ago approving your promotion.
And now with Colvin, there's a new vacancy.
What about my wife? - What about her? The mayor.
Eunetta's seat.
Why would the mayor - Good police work maybe.
Not everything is politics.
Hey, I'll take two.
Western alumni.
All right, you got it.
Major.
I heard.
How's your family take it? Yeah.
Lolita done dropped herself 30 pounds and got herself a real estate license, so I guess she's fixing to leave me.
I just wanted you to know that last tip you gave me was a winner.
Yeah, I heard.
That's good work.
Also, I don't know if you know, Stringer Bell was shot to death two days ago.
So, anyway, I put his name on the paper to tighten the PC.
I figured, what the fuck.
Once he's aced, right? You always did cut them corners, didn't you? Seems like you cut a few yourself, Major.
However it ends, you're good police.
Look, I just did what I did.
It felt right.
I'm fine with that.
Tony, where's my vest, man? - Thank you.
Thanks.
I don't understand.
Drink your wine.
You and me in public.
But your wife - She wins without me.
On the mayor's ticket, she wins.
And you make major? I think she was waiting for this day more than I ever was.
And now she's not here.
No.
She's not.
From out of nowhere, huh? Nowhere is right.
Why me? I guess you don't live right.
Kari, what was that? - Nothing.
What broke? - Nothing, Mama.
So Yeah.
You just drive over here.
I did.
Why tonight? What happened? I was in my old district tonight, which is where I used to feel pretty good, I think.
I wasn't so angry when I was there, anyway.
I don't know, someone said something, I guess, and That doesn't make sense.
Er - I guess I finished something today.
A case? More than that.
It's like everything I poured into a glass came out the bottom.
And I just kept on pouring, like the thing had a hole in it, you know? The things that make me right for this job, maybe they're the same things that make me wrong for everything else.
Do you want to come inside for a drink? Not tonight.
But if it's not too late, I wouldn't mind meeting your kids.
Major Colvin misled his officers.
They thought that his initiative was a tactical deployment to entrap narcotics traffickers.
There was no mention whatsoever of the initiative to any superior officer.
And for five weeks, all evidence of what he was doing managed to elude the entire command staff? - Are you kidding, Commissioner? - I take full responsibility.
And indeed, after I first learned of the matter, I informed the mayor, and together we moved immediately to relieve Major Colvin of his command.
I'm under the impression that this administration gave serious consideration - to proceeding with Colvin's initiative.
No, sir.
Major Colvin informed you of his effort at COMSTAT more than a week ago.
His free zones stayed up for six days after that.
That's, er, my responsibility, Councilman.
We needed to conclude an investigation by the Major Crimes Unit, a wiretap case that would have been disrupted had we moved immediately.
Correct, Mayor Royce was aware of the pending case and allowed us to delay our response accordingly.
But the mayor was unequivocal in his opposition to what Major Colvin did.
What we have here is nothing more complicated than a solitary police commander who, under great pressure, proved to be amoral, incompetent and unfit for command.
No.
It's about more than that.
This is more important than who knew what when, or who falls on his sword or whether someone can use this disaster to make a political point or two.
Mr.
Chairman - We can forgive Major Colvin, who, out of his frustration and despair, found himself condoning something which can't possibly be condoned.
We can do that much.
But, gentlemen, what we can't forgive, what I can't forgiveever is how we - you, me, this administration, all of us - how we turned away from those streets in West Baltimore, the poor, the sick, the swollen underclass of our city trapped in the wreckage of neighborhoods which were once so prized, communities which we've failed to defend, which we have surrendered to the horrors of the drug trade, and if this disaster demands anything of us as a city, it demands that we say "Enough.
" Enough to the despair which makes policemen think about surrender.
Enough to the fact that these neighborhoods are beyond saving.
Enough to this administration's indecisiveness and lethargy, to the garbage which goes uncollected, the lots and row houses which stay vacant, the addicts who go untreated, the working men and women who every day are denied a chance at economic freedom.
Enough to the crime which every day chokes more life from our city.
And the thing of it is, if we don't take responsibility and step up, not just for the mistakes and the miscues, but for whether or not we're gonna win this battle for our streets, we're gonna lose these neighborhoods and ultimately this city forever.
If we don't have the courage and the conviction to fight this war the way it should and needs to be fought, using every weapon that we can possibly muster, if that doesn't happen, well, then we're staring at defeat.
And that defeat should not and cannot and will not be forgiven.
It was a good case, I'm not denying that.
But I need to trust my people.
Unless you can give your word, there's no way that I can That's more than fair.
Thanks.
But it's better for me if I do something else.
Detective.
It's not you, it's me.
But where - The Western, I think.
Yeah, the Western feels like home.
You showed something today.
Just felt like it needed to be said.
Sounds like you're running for something.
Eunetta.
Been a while.
Thought y'all was in training.
So what time you want us to be there tomorrow, Coach? - Hope to see y'all then.
All right.
What the fuck y'all standing around for? Man, get to work.
.
.
to the false promise that our schools are providing a future for our children.
This administration and its top-heavy schools system Oh, you've been on a fast train And it's going off the rails And you can't come back Can't come back again And you start breaking down In the pouring rain Oh, you've been on a fast train On a fast train When your lover has gone away That's it.
That's it.
Don't it make you feel sad? - Yeah.
And you've gone on a journey Way into the land All right.
One-two.
Then you start breaking down, cos you're under strain And you're jumping on Yes, you're jumping on a fast train Jumping on a fast train Got to go on the lam Stuck in no-man's land Ain't nobody here on your waveband Ain't nobody gonna lend you a helping hand And you start breaking down Then you go to the sound But you hear that fast train Ooh, fast train And you keep on moving Unto the sound of the wheels Oh, deep down in your heart Do you really know how you feel? Then you start breaking down Go into the pain Keep on moving on a fast train Moving on a fast train Way, way over the line Next thing you're out of your mind And you're out of your depth As through the window she crept Oh, there's nowhere to go, in the sleet and snow Just keep on moving Ooh-oh On a fast train Moving on a fast train You've got to go on the lam Stuck in no-man's land Ain't nobody on your waveband Gonna lend you a helping hand And you're all alone Can you really make it on your own? Keep on moving on a fast train Before you're going nowhere fast Somebody lend a helping hand, I can't understand Going through this crazy land I'm a crazy man, Lord help me on a fast train In the cases of Malik Carr, aka Poot, Herbert DeRodd Johnson, aka Puddin', Arthur Carroll What do you see right here? It's bulk metal, ten cent a pound.
Here.
Aluminum.
Right you are.
You see, in these modern times, a man got to keep one eye on the ground, pick up what he find, feel me? There's money to be made if you know where to look.
I hope you listening cos I'm trying to school you.
Uh? - Uh-huh.
Yeah, you don't want to know.
You think you're brown, but you still green.
How you doing? That's something, huh? Like they just took a big eraser and rubbed across it.
Yeah.
Yeah, but before, a dope fiend come down here, cop a little something, ain't nary a soul hassle him.
Hoppers and police, they just let him be.
Mm-hm.
Was a good thing, huh? I'm just saying.
You probably don't know, but it's rough out there, baby.
Cops be back banging on you, hoppers be messing with you.
Yeah, thank you.
Oh, shit.
There's a dollar here.
That's a seed.
Come on, boy.

Anybody in plumbing, please go to aisle four.
Tchh God damn! I see you got the DeWalt cordless.
Your nail gun.
DeWalt 410.
Yeah.
The trouble is, you leave it in the trunk for a while, need to step up and use the bitch, the battery don't hold up, you know? Yeah, cordless'll do that.
You might want to consider the powder-actuated tool.
The Hilti DX 460 MX or the Simpson PTP, these two are my Cadillacs.
Everything else on this board is second-best, sorry to say.
Are you contracting or working round the house? - No, we work all over.
Full time? No, we had about five jobs last month.
Well, the cost of the powder-actuated guns justifies itself.
You say "power"? - Powder.
Like gunpowder? - Yeah.
The DX 460 is fully automatic, with a.
27-caliber charge.
Wood, concrete, steel to steel, she'll throw a fastener into anything.
For my money, she handles recoil better than the Simpson or the P3500.
You understand what I mean by recoil? - Yeah, the kickback.
I'm wi' you.
That's right.
.
27 caliber, huh? Not large ballistically, but, for driving nails, it's enough.
Anymore, you'd add to the recoil.
Man, shit.
I seen a tiny-ass.
22 round-nose drop a nigger plenty of days, man.
Motherfuckers get up in you like a pinball, rip your ass up.
Big joints, though, big joints just break your bones, you say, "Fuck it.
" I'm gonna go with this right here, man.
How much I owe you? $669 plus tax.
No, no.
You just pay at the register.
No, man, you go and handle that for me, man.
And keep the rest for your time.
This is $800.
So what, man? You earned that buck like a motherfucker, man.
Keep that shit.
We good? - Yeah, man.
The man said if you want to shoot nails, this here is the Cadillac, man.
He meant Lexus but he ain't know it.
Hold the charge better? Man, fuck the charge.
This here is gunpowder-activated,.
27 caliber, full auto, no kickback, nail-throwing mayhem, man.
Shit right here is tight.
Fuck just nailing up boards.
We could kill a couple motherfuckers with this.
You laughing.
I've been schooled, dog.
All right.
All right.
For real.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Seven and counting.
All of them caught on the wire.
We're not above the corners but we soon will be.
They don't dump phones? - Every month or so.
Sloppy enough that we may be able to track one to Marlo or the people he keeps close.
Truth is, if they're still using cellphones, they're mine.
And if Marlo Stanfield is on a cell, he'll be mine too.
Cool Lester smooth.
That's not trash talk, that's simple fact.
Marlo Stanfield may have a lot of heart and a lot of corners, but he's a babe in the woods when it comes to this right here.
I was proud to chase those Barksdales, but this Stanfield Not as fierce as we thought.
For months there hasn't been a body we can put to him.
Mm.
You two sound disappointed.
This unit needs good, hard targets or it'll go soft.
I'll assume you want another 30 days on your taps.
At least.
We've got subpoenas to go out as well.
Subpoenas? - Asset investigations.
On Marlo Stanfield? - Come here.
All this is from the Barksdale money trail.
We've been running down all the paper from Stringer's apartment and the B & B office.
I miss Prez, man.
I do.
I hear you.
The truth is, those guys had money going everywhere, investments, political donations, consulting fees - You want to do this now? - I wanted to do this a year ago but fresh cases got in the way.
And your lieutenant's gonna OK this kind of paper? Our lieutenant has a fearless heart.
This will get you started.
Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Wait right there.
My coupons.
You were gonna give her my coupons.
Been clipping them for two days and you damn near lost them.
Why are they in my pile? - Why is your pile in my workspace? - I'm doing real work.
Working my nerves is what you do.
Don't you - Don't you Four weeks before the Baltimore City primary, you hand me drug-money subpoenas that hit a dozen key political figures.
There's an election? Who's running? And they think I can.
Shit, we can't take four more years of this guy.
This city's in the toilet.
They said that during my term, too.
You got dealt a bad hand, - with the riots and all.
Yeah, sure.
I'll squeeze in if Tony Gray draws off don't you think? I don't know.
Royce's negatives are up, even among black voters.
Yeah.
In a minute, Norman.
You know what I think, Tommy? No matter what, you got your name out there and it'll help you down the road if you ever want to step up to the legislature.
But as one paisan to another, the day of the white mayor is over.
Your Eminence, you're due at the Belair-Edison Senior Center and I don't want to lie to wrinkle-assed voters cos you wanted to talk shop.
Seniors, huh? They vote, Tommy.
Gotta run.
Sorry.
He's on your clock, don't ever let him forget it.
No, indeed.
Need your sig on vehicle logs and a corrected court report and office memo subpoena requests and a requisition to City Purchasing for a large fan.
A fan, huh? Caroline says it stays hot in the wire room with the door closed.
Oh.
It's beautiful, Lieutenant.
Never seen a beach house so fine.
Think so? - Shit.
Makes me think about retirement and I only got nine years on.
When do you break ground? Next March, if I have my permits.
Which reminds me, on Tuesday I have to go to Delaware to see my contractor.
No problem.
Me and Lester, we'll cover for you on that.
No problem at all.
Cake.
That's my baby's mother we talking about, yo.
But y'all been broke up, right? Man, I ain't living with her but I still be giving her a couple dollars, you know, stopping past.
Pandemic! Pandemic! Look at this.
Hey, Na'.
Namond! - Huh? - What the fuck am I paying you for, nigger? - Oh, my fault, B.
Pandemic! Damn! Yo, man, and do something with that ponytail.
Cops can make his ass a mile away.
Braid it or something.
Me and Patrice been together for a long time.
But you say she running with the boy Fruit now? Yeah.
If he don't back the fuck off, I'm gonna fill his ass with some hot ones, yo.
Shit.
You don't think I will? I got that pandemic.
Man, do what you gonna do.
Bodie.
What's up, big man? You ain't real with us all week, man.
You stepping on that package or what? Yo, man, everything's slow.
Been slow since we moved here from Fayette Street, man.
Yeah, well, Marlo wanted Fayette.
Man, I do not like backing down from niggers, man.
I feel like a punk, I feel like doing shit.
Ain't like the old days, dog.
Nary a Barksdale left.
You out here on your own, dog.
Give it up.
B, let's roll.
Hey, Lex, man, I'm gonna give you the truth because you need the truth.
That boy Marlo got the world by the ass and Fruit, he work for Marlo.
So I'm saying, fuck that bitch.
Pffff.
And move on.
That's just the way it is.
Yeah.
It's just the way it is, man.
Pandemic! Pandemic! Thank you, sir.
Just one moment, ma'am.
You seen Hoskins? Lieutenant went upstairs already.
Step through, please.
Madam President.
Council president's hot as balls.
I'd fuck you to fuck her, man.
Yeah? You'd fuck a guy for a chance to fuck a hot broad? You don't think that makes you a fagot? It's just an expression, man.
Been on this detail how long? - Eight months.
Eight months with Clarence Royce.
So let me ask, are you ready to take a bullet for the Mayor of Baltimore? Lieutenant, sir.
Is the truck OK, or do we want to call one? No, the truck works.
He said he needs just ten minutes.
No, not now.
Maybe tomorrow? OK.
Is that Krawczyk again? Every time he writes another check he calls for something just to see that he can.
Getting calls from Carcetti's people, too.
They want one debate for crime and safety, the other on economics and schools.
Tony Gray crying the same blues.
Want the whole night to smack me with the crime rate.
I told The Sun we're open to any forum now which will be for another couple of days in which time we'll say, "Fuck you.
One debate.
" Two debates.
Shit! That lost-ball-in-high-grass motherfucker Carcetti.
He needs to get used to life in the wilderness.
Not just the downtown areas but your communities here on the East Side.
We stand or we fall together and I'm here today to ask for the chance to stand with you.
Thank you for your time.
Questions? Yes, ma'am? Is it the Salisbury steak for lunch today or is they doing tacos? It's developments like this one, planned residential towers with waterside retail space and restaurants that grow Baltimore's tax base and help rebuild our city.
I want to thank Ed Bowers for his vision but, more important, for his commitment.
For his commitment to the City of Baltimore.
Ed? Mr.
Mayor, I want to thank you and your administration for making this next stage of redevelopment for Baltimore's harbor a reality.
You talk about vision and commitment, Mayor Clarence Royce.
Pandemic! Pandemic! - What up, Na'? - Yo, what up? - What you got? - Just a story about AJ from North & Woods.
Yo, you know they gave him 700 years? Read this shit, son.
This corner is dead, man.
You still working? Yeah, we was gonna catch some fresh birds.
I don't know.
Let me see if I can bounce.
Hold up.
Hey, Randy, saw a dead bird the other day.
Hey, B.
'S up? Um, I want to know if I can leave early.
We want to go down to Mondawmin - for some back-to-school stuff.
What for? Yo ass stayed suspended.
Come on, stop playing, B.
Without social promotion, your ass'd still be in pre-K, motherfucker.
Probably daycare up this bitch.
Pandemic right here! Fuck it.
Pay this late-to-work, early-to-play nigger for five hours, yo.
You owe me extra time tomorrow, though.
Lex! Did you hear me? Damn, y'all! Young'uns don't got a scrap of work ethic nowadays.
If it wasn't for his pops, I wouldn't even bother.
Yo! Make sure you come early tomorrow because it ain't always gonna be this slow.
Pandemic! At least I hope it ain't.
Mr.
Mayor.
Mr.
Mayor, excuse me.
I just want to make sure we're still OK for that median cut on Boston Street.
I need that access to make the site viable.
Right.
I'll get my people on it.
Thank you, sir.
Something going on with his median? Not once he ponies up.
I think he can do a lot better than the 4,000, don't you? I don't even want to know.
No, Chris, please, man.
We're low on quicklime, man.
Doesn't matter.
We got vacants on both sides.
He'll stink is all.
Chris, please.
Don't fret, boss.
I got you covered.
Quick and clean, I promise.
Chris.
Man, shit like that don't even work in cartoons.
The roadrunner snatch the birdseed and book.
We ain't in no cartoon.
Yeah, you is.
Shh.
Be still.
You scaring away the birds.
I'm talking to both y'all.
Took me off the clock for this craziness? What the fuck is you thinking? We're serious, Na'.
This bird could be worth 400.
Nigger, please.
You know Nemo, worked Marlo's pigeon coop? Said he got 400 for a white homing bird.
That's a homer? - I mean, it's white.
So that makes it a homer, right? - It could be.
Damn! Use hamburger meat.
That shit would've been got.
Shut your mouth, it'd have been got.
I'm gonna fuck this nigger up.
Hey.
What the fuck is wrong with you, throwing bottles and shit? - You just cost us cash money.
Yo, I ain't done nothing.
You a seriously backwards dude.
Playing with bugs like he's still in Pampers.
That wasn't even necessary.
You the one that need Pampers.
Put them over that mouth, catch all that shit you be flushing.
Oh! Y'all be stinking like rat fart.
There you go.
Oh, yeah.
Get him, Na'! All right.
All right.
Come on.
Come on.
Y'all acting like little bitches.
You seen my man Duke? - Got him upside his head.
Didn't want to touch the dirty motherfucker.
Could have came up with AIDS or some shit.
Dukie fight like a bitch, yo.
I'd whip that ass if I didn't feel sorry for him.
Duke, you scared away the birds.
I blew me up a bug bomb.
You want to see the pieces? Nah, I'm good.
I got to go.
All right.
Hey, Randy.
That pigeon wasn't a homer.
Homers got metal things around their leg.
That way you can tell them from the other birds.
How you know that? - Nemo let me clean out his coop sometimes.
So he was schooling me.
Which leaves us a total of 54.
No surprises on who's coming back.
All the regulars.
We lost Mr.
Parker and Ms.
Bowles.
Gregory's leaving? Hired by the county.
I knew Bowles wouldn't be back, the way they tore up her classroom.
So we're short two in math and four in science.
Man at the door.
No system ID but says he's new here.
Buzz him in before something changes his mind.
All the way on the left.
Pull it hard.
Hard! - It's locked.
All right.
I'll be right down.
Not a goddamn thing up in here works like it should.
Turn to the cafeteria assignments and that leaves Ernest alone and he can't handle it alone.
You tell them, I ain't even gonna try to pronounce it.
Roland Pryzbylewksi.
Everyone just calls me "Prez".
Claudell Withers, I'm principal here.
New in math.
I won't have my certificate until next year but they said I'd be getting classes because of staff shortages? Jesus.
Lambs to the slaughter here.
What did you do before you decided to teach, Mr.
Pryzbylewski? I was a police in the city.
Marcia Donnelly, Assistant Principal.
Welcome to Edward Tilghman Middle.
That leaves Tullman as SIC for the 12th.
Can he handle the whole shift? Which one's Tullman, again? Goofy redhead, looks like Opie from Mayberry but less fierce.
Jimmy, Major wants to see you.
Jimmy, come on in.
I know I offered when I first came over here, and I know your answer then but I'm still asking.
Can I get you out of a radio car? - No thank you, Major.
McNulty, I'm short two men in Ops and my follow-up squad can't make a case.
You're too damn good to be humping calls.
Thanks for the offer, though.
You don't think I asked him ten times when I was acting commander? - He's in the wrong fucking place.
For us, yeah.
For him Yo, po-po, man.
Po-po.
Shut it down.
Where's the love, Bodie? Where is the motherfucking love? I go back so far with this kid, I was chasing him through juvie.
But does any of that matter? I get so much as a wave, a nod, a smile? Nothing.
How about just hello? - Hello.
See? That wasn't so hard, was it? Lex, my man, how's your day going? Not to criticize or anything but I think you missed a spot there.
Little Kevin, how's it hanging? Reesey, you look like someone just shot your dog.
You OK? - He still messing up? - You hear what he said? You send him to Lamelle next month, I'll put him in remedial math and we'll have done some good today.
He's fucking got me.
Everything good? - Yeah.
Just words.
Mr.
Entrapment, how you doing? Don't look like that.
I still dine out on that story.
You know how he beat the wiretap a year ago? Claimed entrapment in Bunny Colvin's Hamsterdam.
Shit you not.
Smart kiddo.
I loved it.
When I roll back in an hour, this corner's bone-dry.
Your people are done for the day.
OK.
So let's try this again.
I say, "Have a good evening, Mr.
Broadus.
" And a good evening to you, Sergeant Carver.
See? We're right here.
And a very good evening to you, Officer Colicchio.
Fuck yourself with a 40, shitbreath.
What the fuck was all that about? - You can't bust every head, Tony.
I can't? Bust every head, who are you gonna talk to when shit happens? Hi, Rachel.
Tim, thanks for doing that yesterday.
Yeah, no problem.
You ran late all morning.
Late for the seniors, late for the Stonewall meeting.
Late for the Gay-Lesbian Alliance.
Them seniors talk slow.
Bullshit.
It was breakfast with Young Tony, swapping stories over cold coffee.
Young Tony, huh? - I was getting sage advice.
From a one-term mayor? - He takes over in '67, sees the city burn.
It was an opportunity.
Spiro Agnew made his career on the '68 riots.
Agnew? - One man's shithead's - another man's vice president.
True as ever.
Is that polling data? - Raw numbers.
It's incomplete.
You need to be in the call room, dialing for dollars.
Fuck! I can't do it anymore.
I hate it.
I hate it more than anything.
I fucking hate it! You don't do this, you can't pay for the TV spots in the last two weeks.
Mothersucking cockfuckers.
Oh, Jesus.
I fucking hate this.
Hey, Jim, Tom Carcetti here, remember me? We met at your sister's house, the one that's married to that Republican cunt.
I know you don't remember me or have any use for fucking politicians, and frankly, I don't give a flying fuck about what you think or what your concerns are but I do care about what your cute blonde wife thinks about things.
But, Jim, the reason I'm calling is because I want you to write me out a check for $4,000, the maximum allowed by law, and because we don't trust you to mail that check, we're gonna send over some DPW workers to beat the check out of you.
All finished? You need $30,000 In the next three hours.
No bullshit, Tommy.
You hit your number or die in this room.
Woo! Oh, my goodness.
So what are you watching, then? Anything on the tube? No fucking way.
They got enough power in the line-up.
What they need is pitching.
What you looking at? Fucking crazy.
Like I'm really gonna give that motherfucker a ride to Woodlawn.
Shit.
Help! Somebody help! What's up, Patrice? You're letting it ring? You're not hanging up after a ring or two? I'm making the calls, Terri.
Nobody's home.
Lex? He used to go with Patrice? Lester! - He her baby's daddy.
He ain't the first to get it.
Don't talk like that.
Nigger just walked up to him, Served him up.
One to the face.
Wow.
Shoot.
He was real cute.
Lex took all the cute out of that lazy-eye motherfucker.
Anything on Fruit's phone? - Nothing outgoing for two hours.
Sure.
Sure.
I really need your help.
Put me down for four.
Yeah.
What about your wife? Can she come up with four? - I don't think we can do eight.
Kids? - They're in strollers.
I know, I was kidding.
That's funny.
Never mind.
4,000's good.
Thanks.
One to the left temple.
Close range in a lot full of club trash, nobody sees a thing.
Mm.
We hear your shooter goes by "Lex".
Lex? We were up on your victim's cellphone, too.
We'll go through calls, send you whatever's there.
Got this from his pocket.
Pull the numbers from that as a consolation prize.
This fucks you guys up, no? Losing a guy you had wired? Nah.
We're up on several phones at street level.
With or without Mr.
Fruit, we're on our way.
You know, it's strange.
We're not seeing bodies.
This is the first drug hit in months, and it's Marlo's boy who falls.
I thought Marlo was the new power.
He is.
Shit, he's got everything from MLK to Fulton now.
How do you hold that much real estate without making bodies? You hear anything more about this on your wire, Lester, the Bunk expects a call.
Yeah, I know he does.
No.
The hell with Norris.
You're my real partner, Lester.
My life partner.
Don't tease, bitch.
Look at that bow-legged motherfucker.
I made him walk like that.
So who the fuck is Lex? Dontrelle's cousin.
Used to be with Cantel's people.
He working some corner over Hilltop now.
He ain't more connected than that and he coming near one of mine? Wasn't about no business.
Pussy, man.
Yo Fruit was into something that Lex thought was his own.
You say the word, we take off that whole motherfucking corner.
Every last bitch.
What corner are we talking about again? - Rag-tag shit up on Pacer.
They get their shit from Joe but they're mostly independent.
They gone, Marlo.
Just say so.
That what you think? Just do 'em all? Take their fucking corner too.
What do I want with some off-brand Hilltop corner? And why I need to be stacking bodies when there ain't no one trying to war with us? - Just Lex.
He did one of ours, so he got to fall.
Get out, Tommy.
You're done.
Get up, Tommy! Come on, pretty boy.
Come on.
You don't have to go home but you can't stay here.
Come on.
Let's go.
That's home? - Yeah.
That's it.
There we go, little trouper.
drag you out of bed like you did yesterday.
Mm-hm.
Damn, boy, what happened to you? Terrace Boys banged me coming across the tracks by Ramsey Street.
Teron, Manny, Herbie.
Man, all them Terrace niggers.
They can't whoop on Dukie like that.
Only we can whoop on Dukie like that.
We've got to even this out.
Nah.
Fuck even.
We gonna hurt them twice as bad.
Give 'em a whoop-ass they ain't going never forget.
If we straight-up fight them, there's as many of them as there is us.
More, even.
So what? You scared? - Nah, I'm just saying, if we're gonna hurt them, we need to think on it.
Do something go past beating on each other.
You talking guns and shit.
Nah, I ain't talking guns.
What? Aw, shit.
Randy got an idea.
Hey, Norman, you know what I had for dinner last night? Tuna sub.
I ate in the car.
When I write my memoirs, that shit'll be in there, no doubt.
You see what I just ate? In the car? A fucking tuna sub.
In order to prevent distemper you must vary the candidate's menu.
If you're done chewing, let's give these new radio spots a listen.
We've seen what Tommy Carcetti can do .
.
while the current administration What? .
.
protecting jobs at the fort by preventing the overdevelopment of .
.
home ownership.
That prevented budget cuts to vital city services Three and five zeroes, mayor's latest TV buy and it's four weeks Turn that shit off! You don't like the spots? I read the copy first.
I think they're strong.
They're bullshit! Weak bullshit! I wouldn't vote for me.
Fuck! Fuck Royce! Fuck Tony Gray! Fuck me! - Where am I going? - A neighborhood - between Oliver and Middle East.
Middle East.
It's a good name for it.
Fucking Fallujah.
Command performance.
Ms.
Victorina Simmons.
She rules two big vote precincts, no matter who the EDC is with.
Fucking Royce! 300,000 like it's fucking water.
Also the Reverend Garnett.
What are they complaining about today? Fucking shithole city.
Whining bastards, bitching about trash or crime or this or that.
Like it's my fucking fault.
These motherfuckers.
Boss.
They can bite my white ass.
Ms.
Simmons.
Reverend Garnett.
Good to see you again.
I had a meeting go long but I know there's things to see.
We called and called downtown, ain't nothing gets done.
OK.
Show me.
Right this way, Councilman.
The first thing to look at Drink a lot.
Think about water running.
And that way, you know How the fuck you know what water running be like? Water been off in your house since last year.
Man, that's cold.
Yeah, Na'.
Shit.
I'm ready.
Can't go with niggers watching, yo.
Damn! When we call, he'll send somebody, most times, and they write it all down just like he doing now.
But nothing ever gets done.
Come here, Councilman, I want you to see this.
Now, see them drug boys? They block the alleys so the police won't chase them there.
All this trash.
Rats everywhere.
Houses vacant.
We keep trying to get them to come and clean this up.
I guess that's too much like right.
Well, Royce won't let the city agencies take any of my constituent calls.
But let me see what I can do.
Come on, let me show you this down here.
Yo.
Y'all Terrace niggers know that boy by the name "Deez"? - Deez? - Yeah, Deez nuts.
Fuck.
Damn.
Shit.
Yo, yo.
Come on.
Yeah, come on.
Get him, y'all! - I knew them bitches gonna set us up.
Yeah.
Fucking say it, bitches.
Don't ever disrespect Terrace.
Damn! - I fucking pissed myself.
Fuck! Fuck them up! Come here! - Over here! - Oh! - Kick him right behind.
Ah! Randy! - This way.
Ooh! Hey, yo.
He went in there! Remember that phrasing is the cornerstone in communicating with your students.
This applies not only to the questions you ask or their comprehension of the lesson, but how they perceive you as an educator.
And where does that begin? Out loud and enthusiastically.
IALAC.
Let's go.
Once again.
IALAC.
And what are we telling ourselves? I am loveable and capable.
Now I see those smiling faces.
Where the listing on the lower half of the page indicates some typical soft-target locations, an officer alert to the terrorist threat must ask himself, "Do I know the location of my soft targets, "those where large numbers of civilians congregate?" Train terminals, office buildings, stadiums.
Another hot zone in the classroom is the pencil sharpener, where children tend to congregate I had a pencil sharpener in my class once.
Antoine Granderson ripped it off and threw it at me.
I'd like to know what your plan suggests when Harold Hounchell sends a set of textbooks through a closed window.
Thank you.
Attention.
Attention, people! Settle down, everybody.
And for emergency procedures in the event of biochemical agents, you can refer to Appendix B.
No disrespect to your appendix, but if terrorists do fuck up the Western, could anybody even tell? Al-Qaeda were up on Baltimore Street to blow up the chicken joint.
Apex's crew jacked them up, and buried their ass in Leakin Park.
That's what I heard.
Y'all want some real terrorists? Go up on Pencey and Gold.
Hey, guys, let's maintain our - Ack-ack-ack-ack-ack - Brownie, you're doing one heck of a job.
Not another fucking word.
Thank you.
So, supervising the scene of a terrorist attack.
You beast.
I can't help it.
You stirred my manhood.
Little Boy Blue.
What the fuck are you doing here? I caught one.
Got a street dealer who goes by the name of Lex.
Lester heard it on the wire.
Lester's up on the wire? Shit, boy, you are out of the loop.
You know this mutt? Goes by Lex? Yeah, he's familiar.
You know who you should ask? Carver.
He'd love the job, man.
All right.
Carver it is.
I still feel the need to pull your coat.
For what? - The taste, Jimmy.
The taste.
How about you and me hit a few of our favorite spots? You know, me on the Glenlivet, you on the Jamey? Go see if that train is still on the track.
Why don't you come round some night for dinner? Say hey to Beadie and the ankle-biters.
Dinner? located in high-rise structures, as well as residences are detailed alongside Thanks, Santy.
This horseshit? You serious? Back to school for the kids.
Namond, I'll pay you back.
You gonna never have no money.
Yo, Michael, they got you? - Nothing but a scuffle, man.
Everybody made it back, though? No, Keith had to go for some stitches.
He got hit with a brick.
I see you changed clothes.
He had to.
He was stinking.
Randy, that was the stupidest thing you ever thought of.
But it was kind of funny.
You know what I'm saying? You want something before he bounce? I'm buying.
One for every soldier that stood tall.
I was down there.
Yeah, fuck you, Duke.
So you get out all right? - Yeah.
Hurt my ankle going round a corner - but - But you got away, then? The lieutenant governor - I know, we're late - Ain't no thing.
You did good here.
Turn that bullshit off.
You think they'll vote for the white guy? - Black folk been voting white for a long time.
You come correct, we listen.
It's y'all that'll never vote black.
Shit, you got my vote, anyway.
Uh! I don't have your vote, Norman? You're my deputy campaign manager and I don't have your vote.
Last white man I could vote for was Bobby Kennedy and you ain't no Bobby K.
I thought you just said - I was speaking in general about the kindly nature of black folks.
In particular, I ain't all that kindly.
So you're gonna take my check and run with my fucking campaign Well, I do know who pays me.
Yes, sir! Oh yes, sir, boss! Who are you gonna vote for? Royce? Tony Gray? One of them brothers.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Don't make me tell you again.
It's nine sharp, boy.
And I'm smelling what has to be urine.
What you been at, boy? Well, we were playing with Dukie today.
You know how he be with his clothes and all.
Well, it's good that child has friends, I suppose.
Yes, ma'am.
Get in there.
Come on, give me a break - Dougie, I got to come backdoor or the agencies won't do shit.
You know that as well as I do.
Come on, Tommy.
Hustle.
It's ridiculous.
Give me a break Look, Dougie, I'm sorry to bug you but this asshole Royce won't help me and I need some alleys cleaned.
Which ones? - 1200 block of Federal Street, - Chester and Collington off that - Jesus, Tommy.
I know, you'll be back again in a couple of days.
Have Frankie send a truck.
Federal Street's a fucking tank trap.
Yeah, yeah.
Great.
Thanks.
Love to Denise.
Hustle up, Tom.
How you doing? Good evening.
Hi.
You're late, Tommy.
You ain't gonna win disrespecting your base.
Hold up, Tony.
Look, man.
We gotta talk.
I feel bad about the way things have turned out but if you're elected then I'll do whatever I can to help you.
And if I get in, I'm gonna need your help.
I mean, it's not personal, Tony.
Fuck you, Tommy.
So this is me? This is you.
Pandemic! Pandemic! Got that pandemic right here! - What's up? - What's up? I got all this from the Koreans at a discount.
When school start, I'll sell it for three times that.
Tell you what, let me get them Skittles.
Pandemic right here! Naw.
Do me a favor for the rest.
Go and tell Lex a girl wants to see him - at the playground behind Fort.
Girl? Patrice say to come to the playground after eight.
Why don't you tell him yourself? I don't want to be taking Bodie's shit about cutting work.
All right? Just do me that favor.
For a skinny motherfucker, he sure do sweat some.
Keep an extra change in the car so we don't have to come home.
We way past late now, so - Damn it! - Here, let me.
Hey, Norman.
Maybe I'll go to clip-on for a while.
Terri got new polling data.
Did you get a bump? She won't show me till it's all broke down but, yeah, I deserve a bump, don't I? Four more weeks, Jen.
Quality time with the wife and kids.
That's what, four minutes? - More like six.
Six.
Shit, I could have got laid.
Yo.
Yo, Chris, I didn't - Yeah.
It's good.
Pandemic! Pandemic right here! No Lex.
Where's that skinny mope? He was here earlier.
Well, fuck it, we'll jack him tomorrow, no problem.
All right.
Yeah, let me get these bad boys up.
This shit be cool, dog.
Share the sodas, too.
What's up? - Hey.
What's up? - Let me holler at you real quick.
What up? - You did like I said? - Yeah.
Yeah, you must have, because the nigger went up.
He ain't never coming back down.
Chris and Snoop Pow! - What? - Look.
Just be cool, all right? - Our heroes back from the wars.
Got those poll numbers yet? Not too bad, either.
Royce 35, you 26, Gray 20.
19% undecided.
We're fucked if we haven't moved more than that.
I need to be at 30 and I need Tony taking 25 of his points.
Royce's negatives are way up.
He's vulnerable.
Geri, understand this.
To win, I need Tony Gray to take a huge bite out of Royce's lead.
Tony's moved, what? Two points in the last month? That poll says one in five voters hasn't decided yet.
Yeah.
The radio spots worked magic.
How much money we piss away on those? Look at these First District figures.
That's my base and I'm polling - Fuck me! I'm done! - Nobody's focused on this race yet.
We're gonna own the First.
Look at Royce in the Fourth.
Tony needs West Baltimore.
He needs to be rounding 25% and headed for 30.
And, by the way, who can tell me when the fuck did the Sixth District become 64% black? About five years ago in the last redistricting.
Mostly, as I recall, to give your ass more white votes in the First.
What the fuck was I thinking? A lot can happen between now and election day.
I've been ahead further than Royce is and lost.
I can't win this.
Tommy, where the fuck you going? I'm your ride home, man.
The man can read a poll.
You been drinking? - I'm fine.
Well, you need to be fine somewhere else.
Park curfew is midnight.
City's averaging a murder a day and you're quoting park rules? - What are you, a smart ass? - Sorry.
I didn't mean nothing.
Don't I know you? I'm running for mayor.
Tommy Carcetti, First District.
I'll come back through in about 20, Councilman.
Do me a favor and take it down the road.
Randy? - Yes, ma'am.

He was supposed to have a breakfast date, right? I mean, they told me that last night.
Breakfast? Is that on the sched? - It isn't, but the lieutenant told me that he'd be doing breakfast with someone down at the harbor.
I mean, if he ain't, I could go get this gassed up at the Fallsway.
I hate this detail, man.
It's soft duty.
Lotsa perks.
All this standin' around and wait.
You know? Hoskins says I do the one year, I'll make sergeant on the next list.
They told me, career-wise, you can't do better than drive the mayor.
Shit, if you could make rank the right way, I'll still be working Western drugs.
All right, fuck this, I'm gonna go look for the lieutenant.
Anyone comes looking, I'm back up on the second floor.
Sir? I understood that the Mayor might be going to breakfast at the harbor? With Kweisi.
But that's up in the air, I thought.
Would you happen to know where Lieutenant Hoskins is? Sir? Lieutenant? Uh When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole You don't look happy, Detective.
We're about to raise some hell.
Maybe too much hell.
A state senator, two councilmen, the City Development Agency, all those developers Princes of the city.
Lester, tell me the thought hasn't crossed your mind that some kinda shit could blow back on us, man.
Do you know what Theodore Roosevelt said about hunting grizzly bears? The thrill is in overcoming your own fear.
What was the thrill for the bear? I should've run every one of these subpoenas by my front office.
That's not procedure.
Fuck procedure, Lester.
My boss is running two points behind in the polls with the mayor's support.
How is he gonna do if he pisses off Royce and starts dropping off incumbent tickets? Why do you care? If Demper thinks I fucked him and he wins, I will be at Central Booking covering bail reviews.
If he loses to Bond, a new front office comes in and maybe they bounce the white girl back and give the Narcotics Division to one of their own.
It's Baltimore, Lester.
We're missing a couple of subpoenas.
We are? Clay Davis and Andy Krawczyk.
I'm holding those till October.
Oh, the hell you are.
Lester we drop subpoenas on either of those guys three weeks before the primary, and all hell breaks loose.
That's what I'm sayin'! - Clay Davis is Royce's deputy campaign chairman, and the number-two man at the City Legislative Caucus.
And Krawczyk is his number-one fundraiser! You're giving me rsums and job titles.
I'm just following the money.
And we will follow it after the polls close.
We can drop a second batch of subpoenas.
There is no reason to do this now and risk A year ago, if we had gone after these records, City Hall would've stomped on this unit and the subpoenas.
And a month from now, after Royce is re-elected, they'll do us the same way.
But right now, with the primary coming, they gotta worry about how they look, how they behave.
Right now, they gotta worry about scandal.
You told me you wanted to do this a year ago, but fresh cases got in the way.
You told me that.
Very clever, Lester.
You got it all figured, huh? Me? I'm just the police.
I saw the teachers' union finally endorsed Royce.
You knew they were gonna.
What time's your first appearance? Today? I meet up with you guys at the SoWeBo forum.
And tonight, it's me and the kids next to Tommy at the Roland Park fundraiser.
Better speed things along.
A kick in the ass sometimes helps.
B-5? - No, Daddy, D-5.
You sure you didn't say B-5? D-5.
What did I hit? Submarine.
Um E-6.
Miss.
Just gimme ten minutes.
You seen your schedule? You ain't got ten minutes.
Norman, I got this pretty girl's aircraft carrier boxed in.
D-4.
Ow! - Hit.
Tommy, for Christ's sakes.
Is there any way that I can win? With the numbers what they are, is there any way? So if it's just a matter of playing out the string, then that's what I'm gonna do.
That game's pretty much over, Norman.
But this game, this game right here, this one could still go either way.
H-11, sweetheart.
Miss.
D-3.
I fell into a burnin' ring of fire I went down, down, down And the flames went higher And it burns, burns, burns The ring of fire The ring of fire I fell into a burnin' ring of fire I went down, down, down And the flames went higher And it burns, burns, burns The ring of fire, the ring of fire So I guess y'all getting what y'all need? - Brianna keepin' y'all close? - She come up with it.
Money comin' through every month like she say.
All right, 'cause I'm standin' tall up in here.
They don't need to worry about me an' I ain't need to worry about them.
You a soldier, Bey.
You know it.
Everything all right with my fishes? You'd tell me if it wasn't, right? The fish be fine.
I mean, they fish, right? How I know how they feelin' about shit? - De'londa - They fine, Bey.
Ask Namond.
Cleaned the tank an' all, like you say.
Cleaned the filter too.
All right, all right.
Check you out, though.
Getting some fuzz up there, huh? - Mm-hm.
Yeah, whatever.
I know when I was a kid, I couldn't wait till I started shaving.
One of the old heads on the corner say, "Hey, little man, you wanna grow a 'stache? "Next time you take a piss, take some of that piss, - "get it on your fingertips, do like this, here.
" - Ugh.
You do it? - You damn right I did it.
Shit.
What's going on with you, though, son? - Ain't nothing.
School about to start.
Mm.
So what about Bodie and his boys? They treatin' you right? Yeah, he cool.
Boy, don't lie to your father.
He don't even show up for work half the damn time.
Bodie told me.
I missed a few days.
That's all, Dad.
And what money you do make, you waste on nonsense.
And if you think I'm-a give you a dime for your school clothes, you better think again.
What Bodie got you doin'? - I'm a runner most days.
Everybody got to start somewhere.
You better listen to your father.
He ain't tell you 'bout that hair, though, huh? Yeah, he said I gotta get it cut.
I like it this way.
Even the white police from three blocks away gonna be able to spot you from every other nigger out there.
They gonna say, "Look at the boy over there with the pretty-ass ponytail.
"Get him.
" You think I'm bullshitting.
Either you real out there, or you ain't, Na'.
You see what I'm sayin'? Hey! Let me get some.
Let me get some! - Hey, you.
Over here! - $100! - Thanks, mister! - Thank you, Mr.
Marlo! - Thank you! That's my money, yo! Your name gonna ring out, man.
Manuel, t empiezas enfrente.
Yo hago la parte de atrs.
A Connie le gusta por atrs.
No tanto como a ti, maricn.
Boy, you talk that shit better than me and I been dealin' with these Mexicans for years now.
I don't think they would call what I'm speakin' Spanish, man.
Just a dirty word or two here or there.
Yeah, well.
Once you can talk to these cats, the only thing you need then is a truck, man.
Could be runnin' your own crew, pickin' up fresh clients.
I mean, if we put in together, we could be coverin' twice the ground, makin' twice as much.
Nah, man, I got other obligations.
Oh, right.
You set to be the new Angelo Dundee.
I near forgot.
Chinga a ti, pendejo.
Chinga a la tuya, hijo de puta.
I thought you already went up to Mondawmin to get your school shit, man.
Yeah, but not all of it.
And my boy, he need to pay for his own shit and his little brother too.
The fuck this look like, a Social Services office? - Want a check, go the fuck up Rosemont.
Come on, man, I'll work for it.
Na', I took you on out of respect for your father, all right, but I can't go hirin' the whole damn neighborhood.
You can have my job until you get enough for you an' Bug.
Thanks, man.
Yeah, work for y'all, work for me, yo.
Po-po.
Step the fuck off.
Looking for your man Lex.
I see his broom, but I don't see him.
Where's your number two been at? - I ain't seen him.
Since when? I thought we were on better terms.
Or do you want me rolling past lookin' for Lex every 15 minutes? He come past, I'll call you.
I will.
If he come past.
I don't know.
They're spinning their wheels.
You know, poor Tony Gray, pulling 20% of the black vote.
It's embarrassing.
Who knows what the fuck Carcetti's trying to prove? But I tell you, at the end of this thing, he's gonna regret getting on the wrong side of me.
All right, now.
I got what you need, boy.
Clean tees, any sizes.
Lookin' for socks, briefs, you lookin' for some dice, Zippo, cards, come on over to the Rollin' Emporium.
You ain't gotta walk to Rite Aid.
Shit, Rite Aid comin' to y'all.
What can I get you, baby? - Fresh dice an' a pack of Trojans.
All righty.
You got Philly blunts too? Bubbles got it all, dawg.
I'm the one-stop shop.
How much is that? - Six an' a bit.
Thank you.
Thank you kindly.
A'ight.
Yes, sir, I see what you're lookin' at.
Two a deck, name brand.
You can't beat that price.
Yeah, let me get two decks, man, and a white tee, double-X.
And give me the rest of them paint cans too, man.
There you go.
That's it? - Yeah, what's that? - How much the man owe, Sherrod? - 13.
Whoa, whoa.
He asked for all the cans.
Three cans is 12, plus the other stuff.
It's 19.
19, sir.
You still gettin' off with a deal, you didn't even have to move your feet.
My bad.
19, like he said.
Thank you very much.
He's an intern, I'm working with him.
But, ma'am, what I'm asking is when was the last time you saw Lex? Oh.
Excuse me.
Curtis.
Mm? - Two days ago? - I don't know where he at.
Three days? - You mind I look around? - I'd rather you leave my house be.
Well, Ms.
Anderson your son is in trouble, and I can tell you're upset.
But the best thing that you can do for him, the best thing that he can do for himself, is talk to me.
I'm gonna tell you the truth.
We know he's selling drugs.
And I'm gonna tell you I don't know nothin' about that.
But I'm telling you that I don't care he's selling drugs.
I'm not even gonna bother with that.
I'm here because of a homicide, and the way it looks right now, your boy is running from the police behind that killing.
I don't know where he at.
Ma'am Councilman, my people got only cost-of-living bumps for four years.
Morale is at rock bottom.
All things being equal, you'd be our guy.
We like what we hear.
The polls say it's going to be Royce.
We endorse you now, we're out in the cold.
Bobby, this might be the chance to get in on the ground floor of something better.
That may be true, Major.
But for now, we're gonna play the cards that we were dealt.
Councilman, if you were me I'd cover my ass and endorse Royce, along with the teachers and the firefighters.
But I'd also tell my membership not to get carried away.
I mean, it's one thing for the police union to call out for Royce, it's another thing entirely for off-duty cops to be manning the mayor's phone banks and polling stations.
I don't think any of my officers will be too aggressive for anybody.
That much I can give you.
Best you could do, Tommy.
Royce has got all those fucks runnin' scared.
Yeah best I could do.
Call it a night, Tommy.
You got a debate to prepare for tomorrow.
Yeah.
Debate.
Nothing matters more at this point.
Let the truth set you free, Norman.
Nothing matters at all.
Thanks.
Go left.
Back.
Come on, boy, come on now.
Man, you better not be getting tired, 'cause you gonna get put to the test - on Saturday night.
I'm ready.
Hey, Miss Johnson.
Hey, Justin.
Hello, Dennis.
You're Spider's mother, right? - Right, Sharon.
Sharon Johnson.
Your boy left here a while ago.
I ain't looking for him.
He at his grandmother's.
I wanted to ask you something.
You know, my son is crazy about you.
All he talks about is boxing, bein' at the gym, and what his coach been teachin' him.
Well, Spider's a good kid.
He really studies the sport.
Dennis, I am so grateful for your interest in Spider, I want to cook you dinner.
How about tonight? Well, that is really nice, Sharon.
But the thing is, I got four of my boys fighting this weekend, and I got to train 'em really hard these next few evenings.
You in here every night of the week.
What you do for fun? Look here, you got to eat, right? And you can look at me and know I throw down in the kitchen among other places.
Yeah, I tell you what, you fix me a plate and bring it over here, I would love that.
That I can do.
He said what? "Me? "I'm just the police.
" Like butter wouldn't melt in his mouth.
And the thing that I resent most, that he's not just playing the system, he's playing me.
Like I'm part of the problem.
You were gonna hold back the paper for Davis and Krawczyk, right? Only until the primary was over.
And now you feel guilty about it.
Did he do that thing where he stares at you over the top of his reading glasses? You know, with that look that says, "I'm the father you never had, "and I don't want to be disappointed in you ever again.
" It's not funny, Cedric! Those subpoenas went out today! The front office is gonna go batshit! But you did it anyway.
I'm sorry, but shit, I'm just glad to see Lester doing it to somebody other than me.
You holdin' us back, Sherrod.
I made a mistake, man.
Why you trippin'? If I can cut you loose to handle the money, we can cover twice the ground, selling twice the merchandise.
More, what you call it, market share.
Instead I gotta keep your ass close.
You shoulda been promoted to your own cart by now.
You keep on hittin' your dome on the glass ceiling.
Glass what? - You gotta step up the math skills if you wanna advance here in this enterprise.
Remember last spring when you tried to take me to Harlem Park? They couldn't find my records, Bubs.
They didn't want shit to do with me.
They put you in a classroom, right? - The teacher didn't look at me once.
So you rolled out.
An' who got hurt behind that, huh? The teacher or you? What's four times five plus six times seven? See? See? Fuck that shit, son.
I can't wait until school starts.
You joking, right? - Nah, seriously, son.
I can't wait to see all them girls, see which ones got phat over the summer, you know? - Guess who I saw last week? - Who? Kwaneese Davis.
Shit, you mean Cute-Ass Kwaneese? - Uh-huh.
She phat? - Got titties too.
Mm.
I'm definitely tappin' that pussy, now, y'all watch.
I'm-a be all up in Kwaneese this year like this, bangin' that Just like you tried to do last year, right? Fuck you, nigger, I only halfway tried.
So, Michael, who you gettin' with this year? Stankin' ass What's her name? - Tina.
Tina.
Tina Jenkins.
Don't talk bad about Tina, man.
I'm not sayin' nothin' bad.
I'm sayin' she be sucking dudes' dicks in the boys' bathroom and shit.
I heard you, man.
She suck dick even better than you do, Namond.
Ohhh! What up? - What up? What up, see? - Jab him, man.
Jab him.
Chill, chill, chill! Don't rip this shit.
I just bought this throwback.
Yo, Michael, son, if I ain't had this shit on, I'd have fucked you up.
Word up.
You little niggers ain't up to no good, is you? Yo, what up, Monk? Look here, first day of school coming up, right? Yeah, next week.
So y'all need, like, school clothes and shit? Here.
Yo, what's this for? What, you ain't hear me? For new clothes, whatever else you need to get.
Thanks, man! - Damn, 200? - Yo, thanks, Monk.
Oh, you need to thank my man Marlo.
He ain't wanna see you little motherfuckers going raggedy on the first day.
That Marlo? - Naw, man, no thanks.
You ain't gotta do nothing for it.
No, thank you, man.
Hey, yo, Mr.
Monk? I'll take his if he don't want it.
I'll hold his for you - Yo, don't press, man.
Don't press.
Fuck is wrong with you, boy? You too good for my money? Or is you such a bitch-ass punk you worried about where my money come from? Yeah.
Ain't no thing, shorty.
We cool.
You can't tell nobody.
Swear to me you won't spread this around.
And he saw you? Yeah, he saw me.
Carv, I'm fucked in the ass with a pineapple on this.
What the hell'd you say? - "Mr.
Mayor, "that's a strong dick you got, and I see you know how to use it.
" I didn't say shit! And I didn't wait for him to say anything, either.
Shit, I'm never gonna make rank now.
I'll end up riding the boat or some shit like McNulty.
This is way beyond my pay grade.
We need to get with someone who knows politics.
Who do we know like that? On crime, he knows you're coming, so he'll set some traps and lean on stats that say crime is down.
He'll also try to inoculate himself by making it about you.
Like you're playing the race card if you talk about drugs or violent crime.
He's hoping you'll back down.
But you come on twice as hard.
"Clarence Royce has not made this city safe.
" Hey, Jen, what's up? - You got a second? - No, I got time, what is it? - You forgot the check.
Oh, no, you're kidding me.
You've got to pay it right away.
No, no, I got the number here, yeah.
No, I'll straighten it out straightaway.
Yeah.
Shit.
I forgot to mail the check to the fuckin' archdiocese.
My kid's gonna get tossed outta St.
Albans if I don't get my shit together.
Tommy.
Focus.
He comes at me with race and some bullshit crime stats.
I ignore the race thing and counter by noting that homicides are up 15% even though other violent crime stats are down 12%.
I point out this does not make sense unless Royce is cooking the crime stats, making robberies, rapes and assaults disappear.
I suggest the mayor is not telling the truth about crime.
I conclude by declaring that it is for all of Baltimore, every neighborhood, that I'm making public safety the cornerstone of my campaign.
Tomorrow night I will kick his ass.
But the next morning, I still wake up white in a city that ain't.
Sister Theresa? Hey, how you doing? Yeah, Tommy Carcetti.
Yo, Randy, man, you crack me up, son.
Running behind him talking about, "I'll take his, Mr.
Monk.
Give his to me.
" Listen, man, I could've used that extra.
I already spent all the clothes money Miss Anna gave me on stuff to sell at school.
Yo, and plus Marlo wanted us to have it.
He want to show us who callin' the shots out here.
Michael, why you ain't take it? - That ain't me.
Say what? - That owin' niggers for shit, man.
That ain't me.
I'll take any motherfuckin' money - if he givin' it away now.
Why? Shit, your family got more money than all of us.
Yeah, but my mom said she cuttin' me off, she ain't buyin' me school clothes and shit.
You already took my job with Bodie, so - Gentlemen.
Oh, my God.
Shit! - Oh.
Whoa.
Donut, you crazy, man.
Yo, Donut.
You think you could steal us one of them camper trucks? You steal us a camper truck, we can all go campin' in the woods.
I be scared in the woods.
I don't mean far like that.
I mean like Howard County.
Nah, nah, nah, man.
The Ku Klux Klan live in Howard County.
I know that for a fact.
Nigger, my aunt live in Howard County.
Ain't no Ku Klux Klan there.
Nigger, you simple, I swear.
Hey, yo, Donut, drive me away from these ignorant bitches, man.
You can't tell these niggers nothin'.
Move, motherfucker.
Can you see over the steering wheel? You think he'll talk to me? Use my name if you have to.
I had one of his sectors for eight months.
What's wrong with that picture? Nigger, if there was a black one in the parking lot, I would've took one.
Yo, knockos, knockos! at Calhoun and Mosher, six to eight juveniles beating feet north in the alleys around Calhoun.
I love this.
Just like old times.
I don't need to chase these fucking knuckleheads.
I know half of 'em.
Shit, I know where they hang.
Besides, you're a little overdressed.
Let's just call this in and go see the man about your thing.
Yo, yo, man, I ain't do nothin'! - I ain't do nothin'! - Then why you runnin'? - 'Cause you chasin' me.
Yeah, right.
What's your name? - I ain't do nothin'.
What's your goddamn name? - Randy.
Randy what? - Wagstaff.
I know you ain't lying.
Wouldn't nobody make that shit up.
Put your hands against this fucking wall.
What do you know about hoppers bailing from a stolen car? Nothin'.
Little motherfucker.
You slingin'.
No.
I swear to God.
Hell you ain't.
How else you got 200 in your pocket? My foster mother gave me that to buy school clothes.
Your foster mother gave you 200 cash? - Yeah.
Tell her to come down to the Western, and I'll give it back to her.
Beat feet, motherfucker, before I lock your little ass up.
Don't be fucking lookin' at me.
Move.
This right here is fire.
That said, I'm ready to serve 'em myself and keep your names off the returns.
I've got my 20.
You two got to live in this department.
Fuck 'em where they live.
Let's go.
The price of steel being what it is, that's gonna kill us if we can't pass along the overage.
Mr.
Krawczyk? Baltimore City Police.
What's this? - A subpoena for records.
You need these right now? Because I'm kinda up to my ass in stuff today.
Honor it in a timely fashion.
I think that's the legal standard.
No problem, Detective - Shakima Greggs.
You're with the city? - Which unit? - Major Crimes.
Senator.
What the hell is this? - Subpoena for records.
Sphinx Club? - Man of the year.
What kinda bullshit is this? You people must be out your damn mind.
You were in the Sphinx Club? My uncle used to tend bar over there.
Marvin Thompson? Short guy - What is your name, Officer? Detective Sydnor, sir.
Major Crimes? Shit.
Enjoy your day, sir.
Son, we're gonna see about this.
That's it.
Yankin' that bitch.
Son, that's too much knuckle.
Why the fuck you keep callin' me? But what I say, though? He got the message, fool.
Yo, Monk.
Who that, man? - Andre.
Old Face Andre.
Here, let me holler at that dude.
Yo, check this out, man.
I'm gonna show you how you do this right here, man.
Don't rush me on shit.
I'll get at you when I'm at you.
Yo, remember who you're talking to before you say another fuckin' word.
Andre, man.
Nigger need more maintenance than both my babies' mamas.
By accident.
It was accidental.
And the mayor doesn't say anything? I think he's pretty mad.
I mean, Major, I only took this detail to try and make sergeant on this list.
Kid, you made sergeant already.
Shit, if Royce gets re-elected, you'll be a lieutenant in two years and a major in four.
You go back down to the hall.
You act like it never happened.
You shut up.
Say nothing to no one.
But the mayor, he's gonna - He's gonna watch and see how you carry it.
And, kid, you're a fucking rock.
When the mayor looks in your face, he knows he can trust you with this.
And I'll bet in a couple of weeks, he comes asking, real friendly-like, "What are you looking to do with the department? With your career?" He's interested in you.
But he doesn't mention no blow job, and neither do you.
Uh-uh.
It just lays there like a bad pierogi on the plate, both of you pretending it ain't there.
What if he screws me over? Bounces me to a midnight shift? He does that, you will talk.
What I wouldn't give to be in your shoes right now.
Kid, careers have been launched on a hell of a lot less.
Just shut up and play dumb.
I can do that.
No problem.
Thanks, Major.
Thanks for taking the time to meet me on this.
I mean, it's a weight off my mind talking to you.
It really is.
Don't mention it.
Maybe you get a chance to do me a turn one day after you make rank, huh? - All right.
Yeah.
Oh, boy.
It's all good, Carv.
If some federal motherfucker comes through the door, I say, "Hey, it's all in the game.
" But a city police? Baltimore City? Hell, no.
Can't be happenin', 'cause I know I have raised too much goddamn money for the mayor and his ticket.
Hell, no! Ain't no soul in the world that fuckin' ungrateful! - Calm down, Clay.
Money laundering? They gonna come talk to me about money laundering? In West Baltimore? Shit.
Where do y'all think I'm gonna raise cash for the whole damn ticket? From laundromats and shit? From some tiny-ass Korean groceries? You think I have time to ask a man why he givin' me money? Or where he gets his money from? I'll take any motherfucker's money if he givin' it away.
I don't wanna know.
I know you don't wanna know.
But I'm scratchin' an' clawin' to get it done for you, Clarence.
For you and me and the rest of the team.
And who comes through my door but a Baltimore City police - lookin' to get up into my shit about it.
Clay, we didn't know about that.
I'm sorry, I gots to leave up out of here before I lose my damn mind.
Nobody knew about that.
You want to run a campaign with my money pillowed under your ass, you need your people to back the fuck up, Clarence.
Krawczyk's on line one.
I'll jump on Burrell and Demper both.
Find out what the hell's going on.
Wait a minute.
Erm That new driver, the bald-headed, white kid.
Where did he come in from? - Hoskins brought him in, I think.
Hoskins? He doesn't have a better rabbi in the department than that? Why, you want to lose him? Let me think about it.
Yeah, man, Officer Walker be shady like that.
Police be stealin', yo.
Yo, what I really wanna get is a bubble Caprice.
I seen a nice one too.
'94 Caprice on 22s.
Shit was tight.
You be careful.
They almost caught you today.
Nigger, they ain't almost caught shit.
Quiet, y'all.
Y'all know who I am, right? - Carver.
You a knockos.
Today I'm auto theft.
Fair warning.
If I see any of y'all little hoppers even smile at a motor vehicle again, it ain't gonna be no juvenile hearing.
It's gonna be my people settlin' up with y'all in the alleys.
Understand? - You can't do that, yo.
Try me, Namond.
Yeah, that's right.
I know your name.
I know where you live and I know where y'all hang.
Damn, yo! Nice ride.
Damn.
Hey, Bunk.
Hm? - You have any luck finding your shooter? - Naw.
He's runnin'.
But at least I know who my shooter is, right? I just got to find the boy.
Family won't go for nothin'? - Nah.
Mother wouldn't say shit.
But it wasn't the usual way a mama lies.
What do you mean? - I don't know.
It was a weird vibe, man.
I can't explain it.
It was like she was off somewhere else in her head.
Line four.
Communication.
Who's up? - I'm up.
I'll take it.
No, wait.
If it's yours, you lucky bitch, then it's a domestic in a house with four wits.
You want the call? But if I pick up that phone, do I make it unlucky? Or is it still your call? Look, you want the call, pick it up.
If you don't, don't.
Homicide.
Norris.
Right.
Uh-huh.
I got it.
found by the post officer, no suspects, no witnesses.
Ah, man.
Better to be lucky than to be good.
You wanna work the heavy bag? Go ahead.
Four rounds.
Hey.
Hey.
I'm Gail.
I made this for you and the other men to let you know you're appreciated.
That's real nice.
Peach cobbler.
I'm sorry, I forgot whose mother you are.
I don't have any boys.
I just appreciate what you been doing, you and the other coaches, volunteering and all.
Well, thank you, that's real nice.
I got three girls.
Y'all don't teach girls, though, do you? - No, I'm real old-fashioned about that.
I agree wit' you.
Men should be men and women should be women.
That's what I think.
Single wound, upper back, no casings, no witnesses, and nothing on the canvas.
Dead when you got here? - Actually not.
He was conscious and coughin' blood when I pulled up.
You ask who shot him? - Yeah, I asked who shot him.
He said it was a guy with a gun.
Yo, why the fuck you keep calling me? He got the message, fool.
Yo, Monk.
Who that, man? - Andre.
Old Face Andre.
Yo, Monk.
Who that, man? - Andre.
Old Face Andre.
Let me key that.
Yo, Monk.
Who that, man? - Andre.
Old Face Andre.
Yo, check this out, man.
Don't rush me on shit.
I'll get at you when I'm at you.
I'm just saying - Old Face Andre.
Tryin' to re-up with Monk Metcalf.
Yeah, Monk took the call on his cellphone.
But that second voice ranked him.
Ranked everybody, by the sound of it.
Marlo Stanfield.
On the phone.
The way he shut that call down, I'd say, yeah, that was him.
But what was all that in the background? Fireworks? No, it was regular intervals.
Semi-auto from the sound.
Target practice, maybe.
Either that or a firing squad.
There are no bodies on this guy in months, but we get him on the phone and it sounds like a war zone.
Well, at least he gets on a phone now and then.
That's something.
Sounds arrogant, doesn't he? Like he's the little king of everything.
Ah, youth.
Yo, Bubs.
Thought you asleep.
If you want I could go to school some.
I ain't been for a while, so I don't even know if I can.
But if you want me to go ain't no thing.
His Honor was mad? I can't begin to describe it.
What's he want from us? - To block the subpoenas, but he knows we can't once those things go out.
What I could promise him is no more surprises out of our shop.
Is this that cocksucker McNulty? Not this time.
He's been gone from that unit a year.
My best guess would be Lester Freamon.
Freamon? - Lester's got a hell of a game.
Well, we need to sit on the motherfucker.
All that unit needs, Commissioner, is proper supervision.
Hey, the State of Maryland just lost another cooperating witness, and I just found a lot of fucking overtime.
This case went from a who-gives-a-fuck drug murder to straight-up red ball.
Fuck, I should've picked up that phone.
Hey, Sarge.
My boy's a witness.
Drug case pending in part 18.
You know for sure he's killed for that reason? Don't know shit.
But from the look of the court computer, this guy's the state's whole case.
Don't put it in the 24 that the guy was a witness.
Trust me, we do not wanna kick shit in an election year.
Work the case, take the OT, but bury the witness angle till we know for sure.
And close the door.
Yeah.
It's Landsman.
Homicide.
Is the major in this morning? Next order of business, class rules.
It helps if the team is constant on these.
Less wiggle room for the children.
Mrs.
Scott? - Same as last year, double space.
Language Arts.
We grade a lot of papers.
It doesn't make them write any better, but it saves my eyesight.
Demonstrate it for them.
Some of them think double space means more space between words.
I'd have thought by eighth grade - Rule of thumb here, Mr.
Pryzbylewski, never assume.
Explain what you want them to do, have them do it, then explain again.
With time and patience, they'll get it.
Mrs.
Shapiro? - It's easier to keep track of lab work if we all use the same heading.
Upper right-hand corner, above the first blue line, name, date, and class number, in that order? Mr.
Pryzbylewski, do you have anything you want addressed? Can we have them not chew gum? They won't do it in Ms.
Sampson's class, but in four years, I have not been able to stop them.
You can try, but first year, it's best to stick with basics.
In team rules, we can only go with what we can all enforce.
Also, keep your windows closed.
Makes them drowsy, and drowsy's good.
There's a lot to learn.
But for now, build in lots of activities in your lesson plan, you can't have enough.
You keep them busy, you keep them off-guard.
You need soft eyes.
Excuse me? Yeah, but that doesn't prevent you from giving more under your wife's name, your children, if they got separate accounts, yeah.
Sorry, Richie, can you hold a moment? Your buddy from the FOP.
And he says it's important.
Hey, Stan.
I'm a little busy losing an election here.
You remember about six months ago, you told me to keep an eye for any witnesses gettin' clipped? You remember that? Who's better than me, Tommy? Hey, Richie, can I call you back? Thanks.
Anything else you want me to do, Miss Donnelly? Uh - You live near Duquan Weems, correct? - Dukie? - I want you to take this to his house.
Them clothes won't stay clean long.
Make sure you deliver them just to Duquan, not any of the adults in the house, - just Duquan.
Want me to do it tonight? That would be great.
And, Crystal, thanks for today.
You're welcome, Miss Donnelly.
Can I help you? - Yes, ma'am.
This young man has to be registered for school.
Does he attend here? - He should.
What I mean is, what grade were you in last year, dear? He kinda lost his way some time ago.
He's livin' with me now.
And you are his - Uncle.
I'm his uncle.
Come into my office.
Thank you.
Excuse me.
To your right.
To your right.
One, two, one, two.
One, two, yeah.
Yo, look at coach workin' it, yo.
All right! All right, man, break.
That's what I like to see, baby.
You gotta use that left a little more.
Yo, man, you finished? - Got another two minutes.
Fuck that, I got a fight coming up.
You can come back later.
Man said he got one more round.
Step aside, young'un.
Naw, man, bag is mine for four rounds and I only did three.
Fuck that.
Yo.
What the fuck you tryin' to prove, huh? Come on, man, come on.
What's going on, boy? I got a fight Saturday, an' the boy won't get off the bag.
What the fuck he on the bag for anyway? He don't even fight.
He don't even spar.
Spar with your ass any day.
Come on, then.
Y'all be cool, you hear me? I ain't putting up with this foolishness.
Come here, Michael.
I can work the bag now, right? - Not yet.
Just wait.
You said four rounds.
Yeah, I know what I said.
You finish up your rounds, and then Justin gets on.
I don't want hear no more street talk.
We boxin' up in here, we ain't fightin'.
He wanna get in the ring with me, - we can go.
Look here, let me tell you something.
You can come here, work out, use the equipment.
But nobody gets in that ring unless they're being trained.
You wanna be trained? I've been watching you hit that bag.
You got a natural right hand, the way you throw it, the way you land it.
Now, if I was to train you, we'd have to start with floor work.
'Cause see, if you don't know how to move, you ain't got no business being in that ring.
So what you think? I'd train you myself, personally.
Nah, really, I just wanna keep doing what I been doing.
All right.
Let's see that right.
Uh-huh.
Is Dukie here? What's that? That's for Duquan, right? I take it to him.
Gimme.
Hey, Crystal.
Miss Donnelly said to give you these.
OK.
I'll be right down.
What? And for either of my opponents to suggest that downtown development comes at the expense of our city's neighborhoods, well, that's just unfair and divisive.
For them to suggest that my administration has not been responsive, well Economic development cannot be a Band-Aid.
It is a long-term process that requires commitment to retraining our workforce and, as I said before, this can only be successful in a city where people feel safe.
So before we can begin to think about luring new industries to Baltimore, we need to think about how we can make these neighborhoods and this city safe once again.
Mr.
Carcetti may think it's in his interests to exploit people's fears.
He's been doing it throughout this campaign.
I'm offended by it, personally.
But the fact is, that violent crime is down city-wide, and our police department is working hard to keep it that way, and will continue to do so under my administration.
Councilman Carcetti, you have two minutes to respond.
Does anyone in this room really believe that crime is down in Baltimore? You calling me a liar, Tommy? Gentleman, please.
No personal interactions.
Councilman Carcetti.
Can the mayor honestly tell the people of Rosemont, of Belair Edison, of Highlandtown or Cherry Hill there's less drug-dealing, less violence? Any statistics coming from the police department cannot be trusted, because under this mayor, the police are more concerned with protecting Clarence Royce politically than fighting crime.
There's no leadership and morale has never been lower.
I'll change that.
It's business as usual down at City Hall and as a result, our response to crime has been characterized time and time again by wanton indifference.
.
.
32 yards! What do I mean by business as usual? What do I mean by wanton indifference? Well, last night in West Baltimore, on Lanvale Street, another citizen was shot and killed.
This victim was a key witness in a drug case that had yet to come to court.
Courageously, this man had agreed to testify in two weeks' time in that case.
The police should have been protecting him.
They were not, and he was murdered.
Oh, shit.
Why? Because this mayor - You're prime-time, Eddie.
.
.
would not spend the money to protect him.
Now I have no doubt that in a moment or two Clarence Royce will accuse me of exploiting this man's death for my own political purpose, but the truth is, a year ago I wrote the mayor a letter.
I have copies for anyone who wants one.
I begged him to spend the money and make witness protection a priority.
He ignored me.
I even teamed up with our legislative leaders, Delegate Watkins and others, to get matching funds for witness protection approved in Annapolis.
And incredibly those matching funds were never claimed by this administration.
Now to mention this now may be exploitive, I don't know, I only know it's true, and on such truths I ask the voters of our city to consider a change.
Folks, please, hold your applause until after the round of questions is over.
Mayor Royce? No more surprises, huh? I am unaware of the specifics of the incident to which Councilman Carcetti is referring, so I can't answer that directly, however, I can say that this city places the highest priority on protecting those citizens who come forward to testify, and we will continue to do so.
Mr.
Carcetti states that he wrote a letter expressing his concerns, and I'm sure that he did.
I mean, it's easy enough to write letters when all you have to do is write letters.
But when you are required to run a city on limited resources, and balance priorities, well, thenwell, then you understand that writing letters will not solve the problem, oh, no.
Shit, girl.
You know I'm-a roll wit' you.
I need some kinda break.
Mm-hm.
Oh, shit.
Ain't nothin' worse than them bitches with fucked-up nails at the blackjack table.
You know.
Hold on.
You think my son ain't gonna go up to that school lookin' like himself? I don't believe we can get a handle on crime until we get a handle on the schools.
Because we need to be thinking about these kids before the corners take them.
And this means a renewed focus on our schools Oh!
Yo, Renaldo! - Renaldo! - Qu? Next time you finish up the box, you need to holler on it, yo.
S, s.
Mamma mia.
Hey, y'all, it's Omar.
Omar.
There he is.
Omar step, yo.
Omar, yo.
Y'all ain't got no Honey Nut? Whatever you see.
And a carton of Newports.
Omar comin'.
Hey, y'all, here he come.
Omar, Omar.
Omar strollin'.
They don't have the Honey Nut? I don't even want this, dawg.
Why not? It ain't what you're taking, it's who you taking it from, you feel me? How you expect to run with the wolves come night when you spend all day sporting with the puppies? When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole - Keep him in the hole - In the hole - Down in the hole - Down in the hole - Keep him in the hole - Keep him in the - Down in the hole - Down in the hole - Keep him in the hole - Keep him in the - Down in the hole - Down in the hole - So you staying with Royce, I see? - What you mean? Oh, man.
Makes sense since I know you got your fill of Carcetti.
They've been puttin' up a crop of these things on every lawn on the block.
And as fast as I take 'em down, they bring more.
That's what they do this time of year.
I see you're at your leisure.
I work two nights a week, three day shifts and no weekends.
I'm off till this afternoon.
You're good with it? It ain't the Hopkins gig, but it'll do.
Pullin' 52, good bennies, got a take-home car.
I mean the hotel manager's a pain in the ass, but still.
Well, if you was a bit free, I heard something.
This thing over at University of Maryland School of Social Work - - they got a grant.
Big money.
Just stop.
Half a million to look at repeat violent offenders.
Clinical intervention, all that mess.
So they gonna study some shit, huh? Melvin, I had me a good helping of them downtown, tie-wearing, come-to-do-good, stay-to-do-well college types last year.
You sure? Cos I sold 'em on it, should you want it.
Bunny, you're a big man down on the campus.
You the police that legalized it.
The college boys loved that mess.
Nobody else did, though.
Well, I tried.
You did.
Yo, blacktops, pandemic.
Pandemic, got that pandemic.
Pandemic.
My mack, pandemic, blacktops right here.
That's my boy, right? Ain't taking no handouts, but he workin' for it.
See what I mean? This nigger's made a little something out of this corner.
Now hold on, son.
We're just talking now.
All right? - Man, y'all did good with this spot.
You a rightful hustler.
What's your name again, man? Boney? Biddy? - What's it now? - You know my name.
Yeah, but now here's the thing.
With this spot all built up and shit, we need it, yo.
Yeah.
What? - Two choices - you can start taking our packages or you can step off.
My man Chris is gonna holler at you, all right? You tell him what it need to be.
Don't wait for the pandemic.
It's right here, y'all.
Don't sleep on the pandemic.
I want to know more about that boy right there.
Got good signs on him.
Big paws on a puppy, huh? Yeah, big paws on a puppy.
To a T.
Get that blacktop before you flop.
Get that pandemic.
The truth is we don't know why he was killed.
It could have had to do with him being a witness or it could be unrelated.
Now, whoever leaked that shit to Carcetti's camp, - they lied on us.
Yeah, well, that's it.
Eight points - close as Carcetti gets.
He wants to go big dick with me? I'll show him one he can't handle.
We put it out there, anyone contributing to both sides gets frozen out of my next term.
No one rides the middle anymore.
Done.
Next, I want DPW and HCD out there today tearing down all Carcetti's signs.
Any lamppost, median, any city-owned buildings, unless the homeowner's out there arguing, tear it down.
Done.
Third, I want Transport camped outside of Carcetti's headquarters.
Any car, any violation, the meter flag goes up, - inspection sticker - tow it.
Done.
Next, you two, slow it down.
Nothing else comes out about that murder until after the primary.
And I want both of you to go to the press and talk down that witness angle.
Take the full weight either way it goes.
Clarence, I'm running dead even with Bond right now.
How are you gonna be running, I drop you from the ticket? OK, that's it.
Thank you, gentlemen.
Go to it.
Now.
Mr.
Mayor.
What? - Carcetti has a point.
I went down to Annapolis, got matching funds for witness protection.
You didn't earmark a dime to put 'em into play.
Next fiscal year.
Don't claim poverty on this.
We're only talking a quarter of a million.
I match those funds now and that motherfucker's got a campaign highlight - "Tommy Carcetti expands witness protection program.
"Fought for and won extra funds.
" Hell with that! I go after that state-match funds after the election.
Nah, I paid for three pills.
Look, blue shirt gets two.
Nah, I get two.
White shirt gets one.
Cheatin' motherfucker.
I get four.
Look, blue shirt gets two, white one, no shirt one.
Y'all can take what y'all paid for and walk away or just walk away with nothing.
Motherfuck a refund.
No, nigger, I paid for three.
You need to rethink what putting a hand on me's gonna get you.
You can thank your friend here for snatching away y'all highs.
Yo, yo, hold up, hold up.
Can I get my two? Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
You don't rattle.
Yo, you come up under my wing, young'un, you ain't gonna do nothin' but rise.
I don't know why you thinkin' about quittin'.
Look, man, like I already told you, I'm all the way repaid, and tomorrow's school.
Come on, man, what the fuck do you want to go to school for? What do you want to be? An astronaut? A dentist? A pay lawyer, nigger? Look, check it out.
Why don't you just come down here after school and just work these rush hours for me? How about that? Hey, hey! Thank you.
I know that kind of money I said I know that kind of money doesn't come easy to anyone.
No, it's just something on my end, some construction or something Right.
Yeah, right.
Thanks again.
Two hours, 30 grand.
Am I getting the hang of this or what? What the fuck is that? DPW's tearing up the sidewalk right outside our door.
You really pissed him off.
Yes, I did, didn't I? Come on.
Door-to-door in Irvington.
Right.
And we got that dead witness tonight.
Yeah.
Federal? Nah, she ain't no federal.
That there a city girl.
I like shorty too.
She all right long as she don't get in my way.
Re-up right there.
Por qu? School ain't starting till tomorrow, right? The little one'll be all dressed up with nowhere to go.
You know it too, don't you, girl? The camera.
If you go in front, they They're supposed to know it's me.
I'm my own trademark.
You feel me? But if they know it's you What, you scared on bein' made, huh? Claro que s.
How 'bout I put you in a full-body bunny suit? You'd be like a six-foot rabbit putting a pistol in their face.
Let me get a pack of Juicy Fruit.
You look like one of them half-soul, half-Chinese types from Vietnam and shit.
Come again now, Mama-san.
Patience, girl.
More patience.
The guy drives a shit box.
He's got a two-bit minimart but the back door in there is reinforced steel and the security camera on the street is high-end.
Not only that, but I think I made the re-up today.
Schoolgirl with a heavy backpack.
Mm.
Well, I pulled Andre's phone history trying to find Marlo's organization, cross-referencing DNRs to other cells.
This is Fruit, this is Monk, and there's three or four other good probables.
Not likely to find a direct line to Marlo that way.
Andre had to go through Monk to get to him.
No, but we might get a cell on Chris Partlow, or for Toad, or for one of the top lieutenants.
We're gettin' close.
Deputy pulled me downtown.
You guys aren't into any shit, are you? No, sir.
Good he wasn't down at the ocean today.
And the subpoenas? You won't see a page of anything until after the primary.
After that, if a document lands and there's no one there to read it, will the mayor and his people honestly give a shit? Other than that, what can I tell you except to get that unit back on the street? Lieutenant, you are relieved from command of Major Crimes.
You've done exceptional work, and in light of that, we want you to improve another vital aspect of our mission.
Sir? - Telephone Reporting Unit.
You report there tomorrow, 0800.
Have I done something wrong? Lieutenant Marimow will be taking over Major Crimes.
If you need to brief him, do so promptly.
Yes, sir.
Jimmy, how's that beach house coming? Beach Um, fine, sir Great.
Sounds great.
Hand me the colander, will you? He's early.
You get the door, I'll do that.
Hey! - Hey! Come in.
Ooh, smells good.
Spaghetti, nothing fancy.
Ctes du Rhne? - Yeah.
The sommelier behind the Plexi said it was dry.
Hey, Beadie! - Hey, Bunk, how you doing? Whoa, look at you! Blonde and all.
You like it? - I do, I do.
Hey, kids.
This is Jack, that's Cary.
This is Detective Moreland.
Hi! - Call me Bunk.
Let me open this wine.
Yeah, that's right.
Let that shit breathe.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
That's all right.
They hear worse.
Yeah, no doubt.
So, you want ice in yours? No, man, that's a double-digit vino.
Even has a cork.
Swell.
I like your binders.
Thanks! McNulty gave them to us.
McNulty? - Yeah.
Not Jimmy? - No.
Uncle Jimmy? Jim? - No.
No? Daddy? Pops? McNulty.
Oh, just plain McNulty.
And if I take his weak-ass product, that means I'll be makin' less money.
I only brought life to this strip because of the good shit that y'all gave me.
I'm standing here holding my Charles Dickens cos I ain't got no muscle, no backup.
Shit, man.
Yo, if this was the old days Yeah, now, well, the thing about the old days, they the old days.
People I'm working with now So you want to bump with Marlo over real estate? You're on your own.
But if you want my advice I don't, man.
I don't.
Bodie.
Yo, Bodie.
Me? I lost the wholesale to every crew in Winchester, homes.
Them horses takin' Marlo's shit now.
He pushin' the independents over Hilltop, too.
I lost three crews there this month.
What about the East Side? There we got a much bigger problem, all those ugly-ass bitches in Yankee hats chasin' all the locals away.
I heard them New York boys ran off most of Delroy's people, and those that stay gotta take they package.
Man, all this theorizing about how it be product, not territory? You can't talk that shit if a nigger snatchin' all the territory an' won't take your product.
See, the thing is Marlo's only takin' a little bite.
Them New York cats is like Wal-Mart comin' to town.
Me, personally, I think it's time Wal-Mart went home.
If we gonna bump with 'em, it's got to be all of us.
I tell you what, I'd like to see Marlo with us in on that one.
You know what I mean? One big Baltimore team.
Yeah, Marlo can make an inconvenient nigger disappear, can't he? I heard he got some kinda hookup at this funeral home in Westport.
Coffin goes in there needs two pallbearers.
Come out, you need eight to carry that bitch, you know what I mean? Nah.
He usin' them shut-up rowhouses.
Dump a body in there, no one can tell one smell from another.
Well, whatever he doin', he cold but he ain't stupid.
Think it's time to try again to talk to the boy.
I hope you got better shit to say than Stringer cos young'un ain't given no one an ear yet.
Jimmy, you're a domesticated motherfucker.
Yeah, guess I am.
Ah, we're good.
How's everything at the port? - Quiet.
It's quiet everywhere.
Even the Western.
Yeah.
I'm having a hard time with it, somethin' ain't right.
Enjoy it while it lasts.
You working something? - Yeah, I got this one case.
I know who the shooter is but can't find him.
He'll turn up.
Maybe.
More? - Oh, mercy.
No, ma'am.
Dessert? I was thinking we might go out for a little taste.
Unless you got to tuck in the kids.
I don't know.
Oh, it's fine, Jimmy.
You go.
I'll tuck 'em in.
She trusts you.
Yeah.
Can't go to dinner without catching a page, huh? What now? Her john jumps in the shower.
She rummages his wallet.
He figures it out and beats on her till the people next door call the front desk.
Sir, if she doesn't have the money on her, I don't know what I can do.
Did you beat that woman in there? I just want my money back.
Excuse me, Mr.
Gergen, I need a moment with my director of security.
If she presses charges, I'm cuffin' that motherfucker.
This is a delicate matter.
Delicate shit.
Mr.
Gergen represents a national consortium of convention planners, and he's been a friend of the hotel Mr.
Colvin? Mr.
Colvin? Now, you took his cash and he beat you good, huh? How much he beat you for? How much? Give me the cuffs.
No, Mr.
Colvin.
I What the fuck is this? She steals my money and you're gonna lock me up? You're gettin' charged with assault.
You charge her with the theft, I'll put the cuffs on her too.
But you in the wagon, shitbird.
This is not acceptable - No.
He's goin' in a wagon.
Mr.
Colvin, I have to insist.
I never took cuffs off a right charge.
Ain't about to start now.
You're not a police officer, Mr.
Colvin.
You work for us.
Nah, I'm good.
You nursin' that thing like a baby bird.
You know those little corner joints in the ghetto that sell subs, and fried chicken, lake trout? Lake trout? Like egg creams in New York.
No eggs, no cream.
Exactly.
No lake, no trout.
They're pogies.
Whitefish, trash fish.
Exactly.
White trash fish.
"Lake trout.
" That's all marketing.
It's just all dressed up like something it ain't.
You know what I'm sayin'? Sometimes it is what it is.
It really is.
That's deep.
I like the way you think.
Yeah, you too.
Hold on.
Dang, Bug, if you can tie one shoe, you can tie the other one.
You hear me? Cookies all on your face.
Come on.
What up, shorty? Ready for the first day? Yeah, he can't wait to be in the third grade.
Ain't that right, Bug? What's up? Dukie.
Cool.
Look at all these big-ass eighth graders out here.
Look like some sixth graders gonna get banked.
Come in here.
I wanna show y'all somethin'.
Go ahead, Bug.
Yo, what up, boy? That jersey's crazy, son.
Where you get that at? Yo, check it.
This dude in the joint with my father drew these.
I'm about to get one on my arm.
Is this you? Why would you get yourself? In case you forget what you look like? Yo, what do these mean, man? A'ight, this one means "heart", like, you know, "He got heart".
That means "lion.
" - How you know? Word, the dude could be playing you.
Like, this one, instead of heart, it could mean like bitch or somethin'.
And like this one, it could mean, like, pussy or clown.
Come on, man.
Fuck y'all motherfuckers.
They probably do, too.
Get outta my house.
Understand something about me - I may be wearing these bars but I worked the bricks to earn 'em, and I am stone-cold police first, last, and always.
Froze my balls off in the winter, sweated 'em in the summer, ran, jumped, rolled in the dirt with the bad guys 24/7/365.
Now, I'm a great admirer of this unit.
Avon Barksdale.
That was a 14-point buck you bagged.
However, we are gonna do better.
And if there's a case to be made out there, we'll make it together with good work and good supervision of that work.
I want to be briefed every step of the way.
Questions? No? Good.
Yo, who you got? I gotPrez Prez-what? I got Mrs.
Scott.
Fuckin' hate that foul bitch, man.
She ain't that bad.
At least you ain't got Sampson.
Yeah, I know.
Yo, Michael, who you got? Man? Presborowski Pres Yo, he new and white.
We got it made.
Uh-oh, look at this.
Where is your fine take-home car? Got took home.
We need to talk.
Sixth grade is on the first floor! Seventh grade is on the second.
Eighth-grade homeroom is on the third floor! Don't go up the down staircase.
Quickly and quietly, people.
I see you, Quantell.
I see you too.
School's getting ready to start.
Come on.
Hi, dear.
Good to see you back.
Yo, what up, Turner.
You back for more? Aw, damn, man.
I love the first day, son.
Everybody all friendly an' shit.
Namond Brice.
Already, we're starting? Damn, man.
Next time, they stay in my drawer.
Yo, whatever, man.
I know, right? Already, son.
Yo, what up? Damn, man.
These kids is crazy, son.
I know, right? - We're seventh graders.
Yo, dang.
You see Neesy? Yo, them bitches is on steroids, word.
Word, son.
Send them bitches to Iran.
That shit'd be over in a heartbeat.
OK, check the chart to see where you're sitting.
Check the chart.
Hi, I'm Randy.
How are you doing, Randy? Check the chart.
Bunny! Bunny! OK.
Good morning.
OK, good morning.
Yo! Shut up! Good morning.
I'm your homeroom teacher, obviously.
My name is Mr.
Pryzbylewski.
But you can call me Mr.
Pryzbylewski.
OK.
Let's find out who you are.
This is Ms.
Donnelly.
We had trouble with first bells, so expect the class change to ring in one minute.
Students will walk, not run, to classes in an orderly manner.
OKum We'll, uh We'll get to know each other a little later.
Sorry.
Excuse me.
Excuse me.
Latifah.
All right.
Sorry.
Where my bus passes at? - Crystal Judkins, you're not listed.
Crystal? I look like Crystal to you? I'm Charlene.
Ronald Parker? - Heh.
Karim Williams.
Ronald over there.
Oh, Jeez.
Um, yo, Mr.
Prez, I need a hall pass for the bathroom.
It's an emergency.
Everyone, I need those bus passes back.
Hold on.
Whoa.
Everyone, stay where you are.
Stay where I need those passes back.
It's an emergency.
Mr.
Prez Everyone, I need those bus passes back.
The kids that need them - Mr.
Prez - What? Just take one.
I need those bus passes back! - No one leaves this room until Mr.
Pryzbylewski gets those bus passes back.
Do I need to say that twice? Thank you.
Thank you.
You'll get the hang of it.
Come in.
Are you coming in or what? I'm coming in, OK? You asked to see me, sir? I did.
Seeing as how I like to know my boys in depth why'd you want this unit? Honestly? I took the sergeant's test, scored pretty high but not high enough.
And Lieutenant Hoskins - we went through the academy together - he said that this is a good detail for going up the ladder.
I know you have to do it for a while but maybe next year, if I do good here, they'll reach down for me.
Next year, huh? For some things, that's a long time to wait.
Excuse me? I hear you're a good cop.
I also hear you recognize who your friends are and that you're loyal to them.
Did I hear all that right? Absolutely.
Where are you on the list? They took 15, but Man, I thought you were gonna say something like 60, or, you know, 95.
Hey, let me call my man Burrell.
No need in wasting good police like you chauffeuring around politicians.
I don't even know what to say, Mr.
Mayor.
This This is unexpected.
Don't mention it.
Today being the first day, let's have some fun.
I'm gonna throw you a little math puzzle, see if I can get you thinking on your feet.
Andre is leaving Baltimore Mr.
Prezbo, I need to change my seat cos this boy here smells like a garbage can.
You need to work a little on your compassion skills.
Yeah, and he needs to work a little on his soap-and-water skills.
All right, like I was saying, my friend Andre is leaving Baltimore.
He's going 60 miles an hour Hey, what side of Baltimore, east or west? - It doesn't make any difference.
That's what you think.
OK, east.
West, OK? OK.
Uh And he's going to Philadelphia - Man, Philly's ass.
You think Allen Iverson is ass? - OK, stop.
He only play for them, he ain't from there.
I'd never play for the Sixers no matter how much they pay.
Nigger, they'd pay yo' ass to go away.
Enough! OK, Andre's leaving Baltimore, West Baltimore, traveling 60 miles per hour.
He's going to Philadelphia, which is 80 miles away.
What kind of car? - He drivin' on I-95, he need to watch out for the state police.
They be profilin' niggers.
He ain't say Andre was black, yo.
C'mon, Randy.
Andre from the West Side? - He ain't say he was black.
Yo, you know he black.
OK.
I said OK! Mr.
Prezbo.
You say he travellin' in a car.
Is he driving or is he, like, in the back seat? All right, you know what? Fun is fun Hey! Take your seats! Everybody sit down! Hey! Everything OK in here? Why isn't Officer Massey present? Working overnight on the wire.
Attendance at all office meetings is now mandatory.
Inform her.
And this Marlo Stanfield? This the best we can do? - Sir? - This is the guy we're wasting months chasing with a wiretap? We could be out doing a dozen other different things.
Stanfield is a comer.
He's got a lot of West Side real estate.
How many bodies on him? He fought a war against the Barksdales last year but nothing recent.
Nothing recent? He owns West Baltimore but with no bodies? Maybe it's just me, but in 18 years out there, I have never seen a carnivore eat a carrot.
He's been quiet for a time "For a time"? This city's up to its hips in blood and you are sitting on one guy with a history? OK, here's the new world order, guys.
I want good, quick rips.
Six, ten, twelve felony cases a month.
That means no more long-ass wiretaps, no more subpoenas, no more mincing around on shit.
We get out on the street and come back with stats.
The Barksdale case is closed and when the Stanfield wire comes up, we close that as well.
Understood? The hell with this.
We got a wiretap up, and a judge decides when it comes down.
Well, Detective, the Deputy Ops is gonna talk to you about that.
Table B.
Put those cards away.
Kareem Myers.
Sit down.
Yo, yo, listen, listen.
Kit Kats a dollar, Snicker bars a dollar, Warheads a dollar, Twizzlers a dollar.
Sour Patch 50 cent, and gum 50 cent.
Anything you can get at the store, I can get in here for y'all.
Gummy bears? Ain't a problem.
I got Snickers, M&Ms.
Check the price and come holler at me.
I'm doing a three-for-two discount and I'm taking orders for tomorrow.
So, if you want something special, just come holler at me.
There it is, yo.
Qu pila de mierda.
Why not give me a water pistol? You just worry about how we gonna do.
It'll play.
Oye, gordo! The package.
Avanza, cabrn.
With that raggedy-ass piece? Nigger, is you crazy? Loco or something? Don't you know the shit is bulletproof? You don't understand You heard what the boy said.
An' a box of Newports.
Where my change, yo? Don't wild me.
Hey, yo, you see the look on his mug? That's the reason why we get up every morning.
OK.
OK, OK.
Now, Andre's friend Yvonne is supposed to meet him in Philadelphia.
Yeah.
Andre gonna bone that skank.
Can you shut up? Mr.
Prezbo is tryin' to teach us somethin'.
You shut up, bitch.
He ain't teachin' me nothin'.
Yvonne, though, is coming from New York.
Somy question for you is - A, who arrived in Philly first, Andre or Yvonne? And B, by how much time? Prezbo! And C who gives a rat's ass? With this grant the mandate is not only to rethink how we utilize institutions but to help us start getting past having to rely on jail and drug rehab as our only responses.
We're looking for a specific target group to inoculate, epidemiologically speaking Doctor, pardon me, I'm not an academic.
Not by a long shot, but what exactly are you saying here? He's sayin' he's got a lot of money to come up with some way to go at those boys out there bangin' on the corners.
That's what I mean, yes.
So where do I come in? If the salary is suitable, your duties would be to perform as a field researcher, a liaison operating in the urban environment.
You go out in the 'hood and get him some corner boys to mess with.
This is why I need somebody like you to be paired up with me.
I go out there on my own They sell your tenured ass for parts.
In so many words.
Anyway, um, we're looking for 18 to 21 -year-olds.
This is where we see the demographic peak in violent behavior.
You excuse us for a minute? What happens when you ain't around to translate? Don't play ignorant on me, Bunny.
You can back-and-forth with any of these guys.
I've seen you work.
Besides, it's clear, you ain't cut out for the private sector.
By that age they're deep in the game.
He's fucked on that.
So show him.
and a take-home vehicle.
I'd be amazed if they give you 30, an HMO and a bus pass.
OK.
See you later.
I go in there now, you know what that makes me? Some asshole politician who's running for office.
Watkins.
40th District.
You call the reporters? - All three channels and The Sun.
My condolences.
I'm Thomas - I know who you are.
Thanks for your respects.
I'm so sorry for your loss.
We shouldn't be here today just because your son came forward as a witness.
What do you mean? I know it's I'm just sorry for your loss, that's all.
A parent's worst nightmare.
I don't know how anybody can go on after this.
Yeah, me neither.
Ms.
Daniels.
Councilman.
How's things over in the 11th District? Harder than I'd hoped for.
Even on the mayor's ticket.
Yeah.
Eunetta's pretty well entrenched.
Good luck with it, though.
The council sure could use you.
Councilman Carcetti, can you give us a minute? Look, guys, I'm sorry, you know.
Now's not the time.
I don't really have anything to say.
I'm sorry.
You don't want coverage? Are you insane? We'll get time on the 11:00 from the visual but I start making speeches right here? Now? - How's that gonna look? - This is pretty fucking lame political theater.
Yeah, well, you know, that depends on the audience.
This is Shawn Williams.
Lieutenant Mello, please call shift commander.
Boss, you want me to stay? No.
We're good.
So, Shawn You police.
He ain't.
Shawn, how old are you? you shiny-head motherfucker? - You got a sister, Shawn? - What the fuck you want with my sister? What the fuck's this Chuck E.
Cheese lookin' motherfucker writing? Let's say you hear that your sister was assaulted.
Who fuckin' with my sister? - She wasn't.
I'm just saying Sayin' what? Why you fuckin' with my head, motherfucker? And this bitch is writing again.
It's a habit.
Now, what would you do if you heard your sister got beat up by some guy? Which sister? Cos if it's Cherise, she probably had it coming.
All right, another sister then.
Danielle? I'd fuck that guy up.
I'd fuck his ass shut.
With you in jail.
I'd get my boy to do it.
What if you didn't have no boy? I'd get the nigger myself when I get out.
What if you had a life sentence? - Then I'll fuckin' escape.
And put that fuckin' pen down before I shove it up your motherfuckin' ass.
What if you couldn't escape, Shawn? Fuck you.
Fuck you.
Would you go to the police? Just a question.
Son, thanks for being you.
Thanks.
Look, I'm ready to acknowledge that How you fixed for juveniles? Right now? Fresh out.
The van to baby booking just left.
Are you looking for kids in the system or just kids? If it's just kids, you got Douglass around the corner.
High school? That's what, 15 to 18, right? Yeah, but I would I'd go younger even.
Kima.
What's up, girl? - Are you sure? Come on.
I'm the one who took you out of the Eastern, sent you to the show.
You can't come back here, you too good for a district.
I need a home, Major.
If you need to make a move, move up or at least lateral.
But a district is you going backwards.
And you don't need to be under my wing, either.
You're gonna be valued no matter where you land.
Let me talk to people.
I especially liked the timing for when you flew your paper.
Shrewd.
I couldn't see anybody shutting us down, not with the elections.
What asshole would risk the headline? But to gut us from the inside out Charlie Marimow.
My Trojan horse.
And now, let me guess, to save your wire, you're prepared to go to Judge Davis.
If my memory serves, this isn't the first time a Deputy Ops felt the need to bury you.
You have a gift for martyrdom.
I wonder, though, are your disciples as keen for the cross? In your final court report, it would be prudent to tell the judge the investigation hit a dead end.
I doubt you'll believe it, but I respect the effort.
You're a hell of an investigator.
It would be too much to expect you to serve under Lieutenant Marimow? The man's a virus.
Homicide, then.
That's you, right? Yeah.
I know it's hard right now, Detective, but try to think on this as a favor.
This seems right.
Yeah.
So, I understand my old unit's gone to Lieutenant Marimow.
Yes, it has.
So that unit is - Yes, it is.
That's a shame.
I need to ask if you can take care of my girl Greggs.
She's a good cop looking for a home, - and I think she'd be a natural homicide.
Hm.
Well, there was an opening.
Oops.
Just filled that last night.
Another fugitive from Major Crimes.
But for you, Major let me see who I don't love no more.
OK, so, if a rocket travels, say, how far does it go in an hour? Darnell.
Chiquan? As far as it wants.
I mean, it's a rocket ship, right? - Randy? - Is this a trick question? No.
On the money.
Oh, Mr.
Prezbo, I was gonna say that.
Go ahead, bitch.
Laugh at me now.
Please, please, please! What? You want some? You on the fucking floor, bitch.
Laugh at me now.
Hey! I don't hear shit.
Crystal, have the office call 911 and get the nurse.
Everybody in your seats.
Just lay still.
Just lay still.
Just keep putting pressure on it.
You're doing fine.
Chiquan, you're doing fine.
Just hold on for a couple more minutes.
It's gonna be OK.
It's gonna be OK.
You're gonna be all right.

You been nipping at me all night, son.
Thing I got to figure is, is you ready to bite the whole ass? Ain't me with a mountain by my elbow.
You doing all right.
You like the Town Car? You young 'uns, you all into them Lexus and hum-fucking VSU fucking U-ray or some shit, I don't know.
See, but me? I like me a Town Car.
Man look quiet and correct in one of them.
So, I tell you what - you win this, you be sure to pick one up for yourself, son.
Bye-bye.
Showtime.
Shit, nigger, turn.
Man got clubs.
One day soon I'm walking out with a Rolls, hear? Way you been going to school up here, son, I suspect you're gonna walk out of here with Morgan Freeman to drive it for you too.
See y'all next time.
I'm up the grocery on Monroe.
All right.
Water, $1.
What the fuck? You think I dream of coming to work up in this shit on a Sunday morning? Tell all my friends what a good job I got? I'm working to support a family, man.
Pretend I ain't talking to you.
Pretend like I ain't even on this earth.
I know what you are.
And I ain't stepping to, but I am a man.
And you just clip that shit and act like you don't even know I'm there.
I don't.
I'm here.
Look, I told you I wasn't stepping to you.
I ain't disrespecting you, son.
You want it to be one way.
What? - You want it to be one way.
I don't know - You want it to be one way.
Man, stop.
Stop saying that.
But it's the other way.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh, yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole I'm saying, man, the way she was all, "aah" on Chiquan, like "Laugh now, stanky bitch! Laugh now, huh? How you like this? - "How you like I cut your titties off?" - Get the fuck away from me.
"How you like I carve your pussy to your chin?" - What? - He said leave him be, so leave him be.
I'm just saying.
That's all you ever do, just say.
Dude, shit was fucked up.
So it was fucked up.
Her father killed, like, three police.
What? - Nah, it's true.
Her father killed three police and her mama boil cats.
Nigger, please, man.
It's what I heard.
She boil cats and serve 'em and shit.
Serve 'em to who, boiled-cat-eating motherfuckers? - Who want him some boiled cats? - Heard that's how she live.
Nigger, you been boiled.
Laetitia live up in one of them group homes off Edmondson.
In them places, you don't need to eat cats to make you crazy.
Hey, Coach! If the boy not coming, you might as well let me and Michael go in the ring.
Ain't none of y'all seen Spider today? - I ain't seen him.
Now, how in the hell he gonna fight next week if he don't show up to train? I tell you what - until the boy shows up for his lesson, you can lace 'em up and step on the mat one time.
No, no, no, no, no.
Not him.
Me.
Oh! - Mm-hm.
I'm gonna show you as gently as I can how much you don't know, all right? Yeah, nigger, that's yo ass.
You about to get yo ass whipped.
Your Sabbath best? You hang around, you can see me preach on some young 'uns, solemn left and sanctified right.
Why you down here on a Sunday, Deacon? You need to see Ms.
Donnelly at Tilghman Middle.
She's got some custodial work, you might call it.
Union wage.
Custodial? - See Ms.
Donnelly tomorrow.
She can explain it better than I can.
Tell me something - how is it you got so much wisdom about who should be where? A good church man is always up in everybody's shit.
That's how we do.
Yo, Coach, you ready? - Who's winning? - No one wins.
One side just loses more slowly.
Why don't we get out of the house? Take a walk.
It's a nice day.
I got this talk I got to give to my first period about what happened.
An hour.
I gotta I gotta say something to those kids.
I mean OK.
See? Somebody's winning.
I didn't expect you till tomorrow.
I heard my new squad had the weekend shift.
And besides, I figured if I got my shit out of Major Crimes on the Sunday, I wouldn't have to run into that cocksucker Marimow.
Marimow does not cast off talent lightly.
He heaves it away with great force.
Freamon got here Friday.
Yeah, Lester's quick like that.
There's the colonel's office.
This is my humble abode.
The board.
And over here, this is your desk.
It's clean.
You'll fix that.
A clean desk is the sign of a sick mind.
Homicide.
Damn.
I don't know where your chair went.
Make that your first case.
And put that down, will you? You live here now.
Ooh, look.
Actual police work.
Any of these? - He the one, right there.
Just put it to Fruit's head.
The next thing Fruit on the ground flopping and his girl all screaming and this pink shit coming out the side of his head.
The Bunk, working weekends.
The man's dedicated.
I'm gonna partner you with Crutchfield to get started.
You won't catch anything for the first few months.
Give you time to learn the basics.
Our H files by year.
Witness dump.
Our cut necktie mausoleum.
The coffee.
And the mailboxes, arranged by shift and squad.
Lester.
I believe you two refugees know each other well.
Still getting your head around it? - A bit, yeah.
You'll do fine.
Just fine.
As tender as this moment may be, Detective, you've got mail.
You got Lyon on your ass already? Another switch-up on the methane probes.
I'd call that number.
Get on top of that shit before you catch a case.
Chair or no chair.
What the hell is a methane probe? - Hello, Kathleen O'Shea.
Yes, hello? Mm-hm.
I need to speak with Mr.
Lyon about the protocols.
I beg your pardon? Mr.
Lyon, please.
You sound a little old for this, hon.
Excuse me? Who is this? This is Detective Greggs with the This is the Baltimore City Zoo.
Fine, and this is Detective Greggs And you're calling for a Mr.
Lion.
I'm sorry.
I misdialed.
Methane probe.
Scarred-up faggot.
I need to hunt him down, 'cause there ain't no protection against that shit.
Can't plan against that nigger.
It's like - You know what he's like.
What he like? He like one of them terrorist motherfuckers.
Blowing up shit just to.
Don't care who get hurt, what kind of sense it makes.
He got a point.
Heh.
And the government, right? If they have one of them terrorist attacks, they cut Delta or whoever some slack.
The insurance companies, the banks, the whole NASDAQ and shit get some time to pay back what they owe, because the government know ain't nothing they could do.
Yeah, I know you see it.
You see the big picture.
Problem with niggers today, they always see the narrow view.
That's nice.
What? You like that? I had it for a long time now.
It's got some sentimental values.
Just a thing.
What's the real value? - Huh? - Real value? I ain't much for sentiment.
Oh, you know.
It's been a while since I checked.
I mean, the fluctuation in the global economy and all.
I'll find out for you.
You don't have to.
I'll find out for you.
Finger's swelled over the years.
Need some help? - Yeah, man, you need help? Nah, I got it, I got it.
Maybe use some spit.
I don't want the man's spit.
I got it now.
Omar ain't no terrorist.
He just another nigger with a gun.
And you ain't no Delta Airlines, neither.
You just a nigger got your shit took.
So, bring me what you owe and talk that global economy mess somewhere else.
Feel me? Yeah.
I got another game.
How much you down already? Learning their ways requires patience.
Money too.
How much you need this time out? A hundred and a half ought to do.
A hundred and a half? I take that chicken-nose fool one day soon.
Take Super Stick too.
Take 'em all.
Else, maybe I get bored, send you to take 'em.
And my point, Colonel Foerster, is that your man Norris, he's fucking the dog on this, way I hear it.
Sir, this is a top-priority case, and there's a possibility of a murdered witness.
We don't even know yet if that was the motive for the murder.
This is my point.
Norris is a pro, sir.
His clearance rate this year says otherwise, Colonel.
Sir, Norris is good police.
Look, Ray, we need someone who can work it hard, work it round the clock, work it till it falls.
And I understand we just pumped some fresh blood into Homicide - female, took one in the line a few years back.
She's never worked Homicide.
Fresh eyes, then.
But with all due respect, sir, if I could guarantee that no more information would reach the press before election day, would it be possible to keep veteran investigators working it, sir? I resent the implication.
My apologies, sir.
You killing my time coming up here.
If you ain't noticed, it's costing us money.
How am I gonna trust you if you keep telling lies, saying one thing and doing another? I just missed Friday, that's all.
Look, think on it like this - school is work.
They're the same thing right now.
You skipping out on school is like not showing up for work.
And I done heard, made up, and tested every excuse invented.
So, unless you dead or dying, there ain't none you can use.
I told you I'm-a go.
Yeah, OK, I know.
For school or out the business, you are gonna go.
Come on.
Falling behind isn't the way to start a school year, particularly after a three-year hiatus.
We haven't seen you since you enrolled.
Is there a reason you haven't joined us? Look, I know you reaching out for Sherrod.
I want to apologize for the boy.
He's been helping me get a business going.
But he need to be here though.
Ain't no bout a-doubt it.
It's up to him.
That's what I've been trying to say.
That's it right there.
What about it, young man? I'm good.
OK.
One thing though been bothering me, ma'am - if Sherrod already missed the last three years, should he maybe be back in fifth or sixth grade, instead of up with his age? So he can follow the work.
Social promotion.
Excuse me? We don't have the resources to repeat grade levels, and we feel to place the older children in the younger classes is unfair to teachers who are responsible for maintaining order.
Your nephew has been socially promoted.
He's an eighth-grader headed to high school.
Sorry, but Ms.
Johnson's here about Qadriyyah.
Excuse me for a moment.
Bill, this is nuts.
I told him that.
If this gets out, who do you think it's gonna land on? I got two years to make 40 and a pension bump.
Look, I don't agree with the call either, but it's his call, not yours, not mine.
He's the one over at City Hall every day getting his ass chewed.
I don't care about nothing you say.
If you start shit, you can't complain how somebody finish that shit.
Man, she was on her from the beginning with the mirror and everything, man.
I wouldn't have waited.
Mr.
Pryzbylewski, this is Sherrod.
And he's all yours.
OK.
Take a seat, Sherrod.
OK, listen up.
I'd like to Everybody Everybody, I'd like to talk Listen up! Now, we all know something unpleasant happened here Friday, and I know some of you are still trying to get your heads around Ain't my head got a big old gash.
And I'd like to discuss - Yo, is it true that you police? - What? Miss Carmandy up in the office say, "Mr.
Prezbo, he police.
" - You police, man? - You ever shoot somebody? - We should talk - He ain't shot no one.
Look at him.
Yo you ever bust a man named Ashanti Graham? Sometimes when something bad happens - That your dad? - Nah, my brother.
Why can't you tell us if you shot somebody? - What kind of gun you carry? I used to be police.
Now I'm a teacher.
Being a police isn't just about carrying a gun.
Yeah, right.
It's about working with the community.
The community? Y'all ain't been in my community in a long time except to whale on people.
Yo, Mr.
P, you ever been shot? - I mean, like, bah.
Namond, that's enough.
Get up.
Get up.
Get back in your seats.
Thank you, very entertaining.
Sit down.
Get in your seats! Sit down, sit down.
Kwaneese, sit down.
Sit down, now.
Yo, Mr.
P, you ever choke somebody dead like Yo, you ever get videoed? Mr.
P, Ashanti Graham.
You gots to know him.
He was a player for real.
He work Sunday to Thursday, So, it ain't no moonlighting thing, then.
Nah, he ain't no real police.
He full time on this Mickey Mouse shit here.
What he do again? Talked back.
Go over Hilltop now? - Yeah, we got that too.
See ya.
Decision time, son.
Yo, what's your play? I told Little Kevin to shoot y'all both in the head twice.
But seeing as he done walked away Oh, you funny.
Yeah, I guess I'm on your package.
Where the boy at - Michael? - He ain't no regular.
He's just working off a debt.
Why? Why you care? - Never mind you why.
"Why" ain't in your repertoire, nigger.
Yo! Do not be messing with Marlo's money.
Randy Wagstaff, you aren't a sixth-grader, are you? Oh, hey, Ms.
Reese.
If you were a sixth-grader, it would mean you and the rest of the knuckleheads would still be in my first-period English class.
And that would mean it was two years ago.
And that would mean time stands still at Tilghman Middle, and that would be a catastrophe.
I just forgot and wore my old shirt today.
Mm-hm.
If this isn't your lunch, then where is your hall pass? Why not just write it in crayon? Come on.
Deacon says you're a good man.
Good enough to swing a mop, I guess.
A mop? More like a vacuum cleaner.
What? I get a few fellas like you to help me out every September.
You go out on the street, you find these kids, you drag 'em in.
A truant officer.
The system hasn't been funded for truant officers in 20 years.
Where the hell you think you are, Montgomery County? Nah, I keep a couple custodial positions unfilled every year just for this.
Those kids? You haul 'em in, you cross 'em off the list.
Each kid, one time, clear the list.
Come October, you start on the list again.
Job's yours if you want it.
Pays 12 an hour.
Excuse me, hon.
Sit.
Why'd you leave class? I got hungry, couldn't concentrate.
Maybe, Randy, you had another reason for running the halls, hm? - Tagging walls, maybe? - Uh-uh.
You know I don't.
I don't know anything.
I know it's the second week, and I got walls covered with tags.
Does that make you feel good, walking past that? I don't know.
Maybe 'cause you're the one doing the marking.
I'm not.
Then who is? - Miss Thompson? - Yes, ma'am? Could you get me the number for Randy Wagstaff's foster mom? What you want to call Miss Anna for? You're skipping class, running the halls.
She's got a right to know.
Is this her work number? - Yes, ma'am.
Hold on.
Wait.
The new girl, Greggs Sir, if I may, respectfully Norris has a full plate, OK? The Braddock case goes to Greggs.
His plate is fine.
No, it's not.
His plate's a pile of shit, OK? Listen to me.
Burrell wants this case stalled until everybody votes.
And Rawls? How the fuck I know what Rawls wants? He never said shit.
Let me tell you something, he knows this is fucked up.
I have this correct? We are pulling a veteran off a pending case and giving it to a rook so as not to make timely progress on said case? The Braddock case to Greggs.
A pilot program? - For one of your middle schools, yes.
A $200,000 grant is attached.
Free money.
I'm just trying to help, Mrs.
Conway.
Help how? You say that your target group is repeat violent offenders.
Are you suggesting that the system's lost control of the school? No, that's not what I'm suggesting at all.
The system's fine.
The system's great.
I mean, this isn't about the system.
We're just gonna try to find a way to get to some of the troubled kids who won't be in the system too much longer.
Well, look, just make sure there's no fuss.
Nothing that gets anyone upset, you know? There's an election, and we don't want to put our schools in the middle of that mess.
No, indeed.
Humping a radio car like a young sprite.
I'm a little bit proud to know you.
Just a little bit? It ain't like there aren't better things to do.
Like what? - See, I told you, Lester, the worm has turned for my boy.
I heard they torpedoed your wiretap.
Yeah, they sent us a new lieutenant.
Marimow from E&T.
The Unit Killer.
Lester and Kima bailed to Homicide, and Sydnor's looking to jump at the first opening.
So, Major Crimes is dead, huh? - Yeah, Lester killed it good.
Went looking for the money.
Guys like you, you never learn.
Guys like me? - Yeah, 13 years - Four months.
Four months.
You guys call for backup or what? - Yeah.
We got arrest papers on a murder for one Curtis Anderson, aka Lex.
He's been on the wing for a couple of weeks, so I don't expect him at his mama's, but - What's the address? - 643 Harlem.
How about you taking the door with me for old time's sake, Jim? - I'll take the back, gents.
The back? Damn, junior, the worm has turned for you.
You know what they say about the man who volunteers to take the back? He buys.
B&O Tavern, tonight at nine, son.
I throw myself out after one.
Shit.
You don't believe me, ask Bunk.
True.
The bedroom's clear.
Yeah, basement too.
Clear.
Yeah.
Clear.
Nine tonight, McNulty, B&O Tavern.
He's not here.
I told you.
Is he coming home again? Ma'am, is your son alive? Because if he's not, we can end this right now.
Otherwise, we've got a witness.
That gives us a murder warrant.
That warrant says that we can come through your door as many times as necessary.
I don't know where my son is.
It's like them birds of yours.
They go out, and they fly around the city.
They free to do as they do.
End of the day, they come back here, get water, get fed, 'cause they know you got this place set up regular as the rain.
No surprises, 'cause at the end of the day, a man don't want no surprises.
You know, birds neither.
Same as what I'm offering.
You part of a co-op, a whole lot of surprises you never worry about again.
You just do as you do, knowing the product will always be there and be the finest quality, knowing that if one of yours takes a pinch, he got a lawyer and a bondsman waiting for him before he even step out the wagon.
I know how to hire lawyers.
Ain't just about the lawyers.
It's having a connection so that you know before the bust even go down.
What I got to give up to get that good dope? Muscle.
You got muscle.
You stand with us, we run these New York boys right out of East Baltimore.
Fuck I care about East Baltimore? The point of the co-op is we stand together.
We share information, and no one fucks with any of us.
No one fucks with me now.
That don't mean there couldn't be some unforeseen cir No one fucks with me now.
African colors.
Subtle.
Tony Gray is pulling 24% now.
You need new colors and a new message, Clarence.
You need to rally the base.
You want me to start wearing dashikis? Go all Marion Barry and shit? I'll tell you what I would like - another 75 in cash for walk-around money.
Call another game.
It's a waste of time, and right now time is everything.
They're gonna spit in your eye and endorse Royce.
They only waited this long out of respect to Tony Gray.
Otherwise, they give it to Royce months ago.
That's not the point.
You go there uninvited, and you're gonna piss them off.
Am I? Or do I piss them off even more by pretending that they don't exist, that I don't need them? I've door-to-doored every neighborhood, saying I'm ready to be mayor to all of it, not just my base, but all of it.
What does it say I don't go see these guys? He's right.
They endorse Royce, fine.
The hell else they gonna do? But what they say and don't say from the pulpit that Sunday before the primary, we still got a dog in that fight.
I do this right, they'll respect it.
And if they don't, at least they get to see a begging-ass white man on his knees.
Always a feel-good moment for the folks.
And as to my attendance at council meetings, those who know the job understand there is more to being a councilperson than just the meetings.
Yes.
Charles? Yeah, they're putting a halfway house at the end of my block.
Addicts and such.
Not if I have anything to say about it.
Where you living at, sir? - 800 block North Carrollton.
I'm gonna take a look into that.
Is there anyone with a question for any of the other candidates? Anyone with an issue, a concern? I would say that with regard to the gentleman's concern about the halfway house, that while I share your concern, it's also true that the city has thousands of drug addicts in recovery, and those halfway houses and shelters have to go someplace.
Though not in white neighborhoods.
Ma'am, could I see that Royce flyer? That is a fair point as well.
But these are people - our brothers and sisters, our children, our friends.
They are trying to change their lives, and so it's up to us to be responsible for them.
Feel good to miss a hand, huh? - What's the point? Eventually, we all got to ante up.
Yeah, we do.
But I can't believe he had the balls enough to call two games in one month.
He's loading up on walk-around money.
He wants cash on the street come election day.
Carcetti got to him.
Called it a war chest.
Maybe we got us a war this time.
I wish he wasn't so fucking ugly with it.
That two pair he bet on, right into Roger's trip nines.
I folded on a flush.
Full boat, four hands ago.
It's immoral, what it is.
So, what's the game, gents? Clarence's deal.
Texas Hold 'Em.
I begin to understand the popularity of this game.
No limit.
Oh, peachy.
I was beginning to think you'd lost it.
That living room shrine of hers would have shamed Elvis and Tupac both.
Her son's deader than both of 'em.
She's just too scared to say so.
That shit wasn't there the first time I talked to her.
I'd have seen it.
Mm-hm.
You being a detective and all.
Mm-hm? - Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Hey, look, she got a friend.
She too young for you, boy.
Young? They get younger, William.
Skinnier too.
We don't.
Younger, skinnier - where's Jimmy? That's just the nature of things.
Age is age, fat is fat, and nature is nature.
Pitiful.
And pitiless.
Nature don't care.
Nature just is.
Now my boy Marlo, I thought he was skewing that.
Screwing what? - The boy's a young lion.
"Hello, is Mr.
Lyon home?" And a lion has to have his kill.
"Methane probe for Mr.
Lyon.
" So then where are my bodies? Here I am over here on the one hand without a body in six months, and here you are looking for a suspect who's most likely dead, and most likely for dropping one of Marlo's.
Then again, if he's dead where's that body? You know what the plural of pussy is? Puss-i.
Jimmy taught me that.
Where's he putting the bodies, Bunk? In the sewers? Rogue funeral home, maybe? They teach that fancy-ass Latin at them Catholic schools.
You remember the Eddy Crane case? - Mm-hm.
Word was they put him in an acid vat down near Curtis Bay.
They're coming up on us now.
Now, for a West Side boy like Marlo Stanfield, that would be the traditional dumping grounds.
Right? Right? What? Oh, man.
Jimmy! Jimmy! Trying to get some of that puss-i.
What the hell you still sitting here for? Fucking Huxtables and shit, right? There they go right there.
He's still with school.
Shit.
Just so they can spring out that shit pile every day.
Make a good run at that boy, he'll be on a corner, no problem, man.
Yeah, we gonna see.
You hung over? Just saying you look like shit.
You know what you need at a crime scene? - Rubber gloves.
Soft eyes.
Like I'm supposed to cry and shit? You got soft eyes, you can see the whole thing.
You got hard eyes, you're staring at the same tree, missing the forest.
Oh, Zen shit.
Soft eyes, grasshopper.
Lividity puts the time of death at 7:48, - give or take.
Noted.
You're gonna want a chemstat.
You think? - Couldn't hurt.
A CBC too? Splatter distance? - Yeah, definitely.
You know, where the hell did my Q-tips go? - Don't sweat it.
I got mine right here.
Good.
You want to take a look? Won't bite.
Hey, don't forget the stippling.
I'm a rookie? - There's something in his hand.
Yeah? Give her some tweezers.
"Tater killed me.
" Oh! Is it typed? 'Cause that would hold up a lot better in court.
Phone number in the other hand.
A standard confidentiality agreement.
And this one? Oh, that one indemnifies us should you or any of your staff be injured.
Who wants to get some learning today? - I roll up front with you? - You got dibs in the back, little man, let's go.
Come on.
Don't worry about him.
We'll catch him later.
Yeah, little man's so excited about what's on that blackboard, he gonna race us.
What's the line on us so far? In the teacher's lounge, I mean.
They're saying you're this year's band-aid.
Is that how you feel? - I was hoping for more than that.
This year's splint? Hey, Miss Sampson.
Yo, he police.
I mean, the school system seems benign.
And I get the sense North Avenue might give us some latitude, if not support.
You think so? - You sound doubtful.
You can tell the days by their faces.
The best day is Wednesday.
That's the farthest they get from home, from whatever's going on in the streets.
You see smiles then.
Monday is angry.
Tuesdays, they're caught between Monday and Wednesday, so it could go either way.
Thursdays they're feeling that weekend coming.
Friday, it's bad again.
This is where I leave you.
Your class.
Language arts, huh? Yes.
Anyway, you should see it without me.
They behave differently when I'm around.
No doubt.
What do you think this 20 stands for? It's not the number of days you've been suspended.
It's not the number of years you'll spend in prison if you don't shape up.
It's 50% below average.
It's 30% below failure even.
But, really, it stands for the amount of interest you're taking in your own future.
The next question is worth two points.
Who can tell me, why was Clarence Mitchell Jr - important to the civil rights movement? - I know! And I can tell by Shalanta's smile, she's gonna win for the blue team.
Did you see that one over there? Anybody here DeShawn Price? Never heard of him.
What's your name? - Herbert Brown.
This the roundup van, right? Oh, yeah, here you go, my man.
Come on.
No, yo, no.
Yeah, see, Howard Brown.
That's my brother.
He over on McHenry Street if you want him.
I was just in school on Friday, so I'm phat till October.
Sorry.
Hold up, my man.
Nah, he's right.
School gets a certain amount of money for each kid that shows up one day in September - and one day in October.
One day? After that, they don't lose the government money, so we done with it.
Nah, man.
School is school.
Yeah, well, I'm just trying to school you, brother.
All right, which one of y'all still need your September day? Get it over with now, we won't be messing with y'all later.
What up, Butch? How do we begin? You the one called the meet.
Why don't we begin by you respecting my time and getting to it? First of all, I heard you may be under the impression I was somehow involved with the late Mr.
Bell, in his play against you with Brother Mouzone.
I was no way involved.
Stringer came at me to set up the parley with you.
He used me like he used y'all, I feel the need to say.
It's said, then.
Tip out on it.
Businessman such as myself does not believe in bad blood with a man such as yourself.
Disturbs the sleep.
I bet it do.
By way of amends, a proposition.
I know of a card game on the West Side - high rollers, lots of cash money, boxcar-sized.
You trying to set me up, Joe? You ever known me to be stupid? I'm trying to make things right here with you.
How much we talking about? If there ain't at least a few hundred K in that room, I wish myself blind.
Serious, Joe.
I say again, have you ever known me to be a stupid man? - What are the strings? - No strings.
What's your cut, then? - Quarter of the take.
I scope this and it don't look right, I'm gonna come back on you now, Joe.
Where did everybody go? - Which one of you is Sergeant Hauk? - Sir.
And you must be Dozerman.
Yes, sir.
Welcome to Major Crimes.
I'm Lieutenant Marimow.
I see you just made sergeant after driving the mayor around for less than three months.
You must be a hell of a driver.
Anyone here? Greggs? Freamon? Sydnor and Massey.
And they're on the street, making rips.
That's what we do here now.
We get on the street and we rip and run.
Can you get with that, Sergeant? The Western District way, sir.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks for seeing me.
I understand you've heard from Mayor Royce and Councilman Gray, and I'd like to thank you for being able to join in this process.
I don't expect to walk out of this room today with an endorsement from the Interdenominational Ministerial Alliance.
I don't.
But the point is I think I can be a better mayor for Baltimore than the present one.
I voted for Clarence Royce eight years ago.
I voted for him four years after that.
I felt there was promise in the man.
But now I'm disappointed.
I'm disappointed and I'm angry at the crime and the waste and the damage done to so many neighborhoods.
Not just in my district, but on the West Side - Pimlico, Cherry Hill, Edmondson Village.
Wherever I go, people want the same things, they need the same things, but they're just not getting them.
I'm gonna change that.
I'm not gonna ask for your vote now.
Maybe I haven't earned it yet.
But I am here to say that when I am mayor, my door is open to you, regardless of who you endorse.
And I want you to remember that I came here today to say these things.
Thank you.
Councilman.
Thank you for coming.
OK, I'm gonna need an APB on a motherfucker named Tater.
Call Mr.
Sweet ASAP? Let me guess - the Gay and Lesbian Alliance.
Uh-oh.
She's catching on, boys.
Oh? What do you want? Another methane probe? Or some other CSI bullshit that don't exist? You're the primary on the Braddock case.
The dead witness.
Norris is back in the rotation.
What? You caught your first murder.
Kudos.
Come on, man, damn.
Bam, bam! Yeah.
Do that to whoever be snitching.
Who snitching? - Don't know, but kids be snitching.
Rashid got suspended for tagging walls.
Y'all ain't heard? Maybe he just get caught with a paint can.
Ms.
Donnelly came and pulled him out of the classroom.
Bam! - I'll see y'all later.
You going past the gym? All right, man.
Peace, peace.
I ain't gonna tell you again.
Give me the remote.
Did y'all learn something today? Y'all learn something today? Yeah.
What y'all learn? - I said give me the remote.
Mm-mm.
Give it.
Math your favorite, right? Start with it.
I like math.
Yeah, you good at it too.
Watched this show five damn times.
Hey, you good? All right now.
So, it turns out the one girl to close her up.
She's looking at a lot of rehab and maybe more surgery.
The muscles in her face don't even move right.
How's the class seem? - Like it didn't really happen.
They're still processing.
I know it doesn't seem so, but they are.
What about Laetitia? What happens to her? Nothing worse than she's already seen.
She'll probably go to a juvenile facility, which is only a little worse than her group home.
She was in a group home? - She grew up in the system.
Monday-to-Friday angry.
Last year, she was suspended twice, and then expelled.
Chiquan wasn't positive though, if you're looking for a silver lining.
Excuse me? She didn't have HIV, in case you were worrying.
Marcus.
Boy, what are you trying to do? You trying to get knocked out? Drop your head, son.
Left up! Get that left up! Pick your hand up.
Damn! Man, that boy listen to anyone? All right, all right.
Time, time.
Not bad, y'all.
Not bad, Justin.
Marcus, you got to concentrate, man.
Think.
All right? Listen, I got tickets to the fights tonight, Pikesville Armory.
Now, I was gonna take Justin and Spider, but Spider ain't been hanging out, and, Marcus, I know you got your mother.
So, Michael, you want to see the fights? - You going? - Yeah, I'm in.
Yeah, all right.
All right.
Come on, get this headgear off.
What the fuck is that? Souvenir.
What? Trouble with doing it this way, disappearing 'em and shit - nobody knows.
I remember when I was a kid, if you had a map of the world, the playground over at Baker and Moreland would be at the center of it.
And as I got older, the playground just kept on getting bigger, went beyond the neighborhood.
Everything changes, you know? One minute the ice-cream truck be the only thing you want to hear.
Next thing, them touts calling out the heroin be the only thing you can hear.
What's that? Workbook I need to use with this.
So you read from the small one and answer questions in the big one? Yeah, ain't no thing.
Yeah, I see that.
I see that.
All right, you see how he keeping his hands up? Look at his feet.
Look at their feet.
See how they keep their feet moving? See what I'm saying? See how he stay in close? That's how you take away his power.
Yo, dude is cut.
Yeah, man.
That's discipline.
You take care of your body, your body take care of you.
Yo, I bet his woman is fine, man.
Yeah, I bet she is too.
Flush to the queen.
Full house.
All right, everybody, let me see them hands, yo.
Hands.
Big man, back up.
I don't know about cards, but I think these four-fives beat a full house.
Hey, yo, banker, cash me out, yo.
Boy, you want a head on that body, you best hop to.
That's my money.
Man, money ain't got no owners, only spenders.
I tell you something else - I like that ring too.
Boy, you got me confused with a man repeats himself.
This ain't over.
That's how you carrying it, Shorty, huh? 'Cause I can find your peoples a whole lot easier than they can find me.
Wear it in health.
No doubt.
Phew! You see what I'm talking about, Justin? That's the real deal.
You keep training, I'm telling you, boy, you can get there.
See, the last fight was the best.
The Puerto Rican boy had a good left.
Yeah, shit was tight.
This it, right here on the right.
All right.
All right now.
I'll see you tomorrow, Coach.
All right, now, so you live over on Hey, my boy, what you doing? - I'm gonna take you home.
No, thank you.
Michael, come on now, serious.
Nah.
No, thank you.
I'm good from here.

To cap a motherfucker, put a pistol to his head, say, "pow," he tagged, but when Chris It ain't working, Na'.
You making this up.
Word to my mother.
Lex ain't dead.
I seen him in an alley last night - near the playground.
Everybody know Lex is dead.
Nah, there's dead, and there's special dead.
Yeah, Chris working that juju shit.
Nah, man, what I'm saying is they zombies.
Why you think he take them into vacants? He need time to change them.
You don't believe me, it's on you.
They funnin', ain't they, Michael? I don't know about voodoo shit, man, but Chris is definitely doing something - get a nigger to walk up in there knowing he about to get capped.
Chris, he different.
You can tell by his coon-ass country clothes.
Nine? - Nah, too much bark.
Probably a.
40-cal.
Yeah, man, this is serious business.
So you saying Lex is a zombie? Pookie, Byron, all them niggers.
And Chris? - Yeah, Chris - Zombie Master.
I knew this wasn't going away.
That's what we've been saying, yo.
Chris got the power.
He tell them to come, and they gotta come - like the devil do with the damned.
What you think Chris got them doing? They're probably spies, man.
Can't figure any other way Marlo knows so much.
Yeah, that's it.
Like in this movie, Zombie Killer or something.
They came out at night, hunting.
Hunting? - Yeah, man.
They Yeah, and in that movie they was snatching people up, stealing their warmth.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole St.
Jude, patron of lost causes.
Tell me you ain't been on bended knee whispering in his saintly ear each and every night before you close those peepers.
I know you have, Tommy, catch a break like this.
Stan, you're sure about this? - On my mother's soul.
It's a lock.
Assigned a rookie - a broad, no less - as lead detective.
Pulled a good man off too, I heard.
Tom.
Tommy, remember - anything you need.
He's a piece of work.
Valchek? Comes with the territory.
You want the First District council seat, you make nice with whatever Polish or Greek commander - they dump in the southeast.
Not Italian.
Ain't enough of us there.
You think he's this right? - That Royce tampered with the case? No way the mayor knows.
You're right.
This one has Ervin Burrell written all over it.
Fuck if the mayor knows or not.
If it's true, we get it out there quick and bang him hard.
Go public? - They can't spin this.
They sabotaged a criminal case.
No spin on a knuckle ball, you still can't tell how it's gonna break.
We feed it to Tony Gray.
We keep ourselves out of the line of fire, sting Royce, and as an added bonus, give Gray's campaign a boost which comes at the expense of the mayor's base.
I'm a devious motherfucker once I get going.
So, all told, we're looking at 13 warrants and six locations.
And, given my staffing situation Not a problem.
I can give you my DEU, Flex, and Ops squads.
A sector of uniforms if you need it.
Great.
The problem is, you're wasting a wiretap on street-level arrests.
We do these raids right, we might catch Marlo or one of his lieutenants at one of these locations, - get them with dope on the table.
Marlo Stanfield, in a room, with dope on the table? I've kicked down doors and surprised bigger players than him.
Well, let me warn you, Lieutenant - I am not about to litigate a wiretap for a handful of street rips.
Well, that's on you, Counselor.
No, it's not.
Major, see you tomorrow.
Floaters - you had any more? - No more than usual for the season.
What about decomps? What do you got in the decomp room? - Two or three unidentifieds.
Found in Baltimore? No.
Two from Prince George's, one from Dorchester.
He wouldn't drive that far.
So you're looking for extra bodies, no one in particular, other than this kid you already put on the teletype.
Yeah.
You on it.
You fellas don't have enough work? If you do your classwork, homework, you earn stickers.
Dag, yo, every day you be changing it up.
You got us confused, Mr.
P.
Behave in class, that's another sticker.
At the end of the week, the four with the most stickers get a prize and are eligible for a grand drawing at the end of the month.
Don't do your work, misbehave in class .
.
your name goes here.
Detention - a full hour after school, no exceptions.
So it's up to you - stickers for prizes or stay with me after school.
Yo, Mr.
P, why you do me detention, huh? - You interrupted the class, Namond.
Yo, when you first came here, you was treating us straight up and now you just dog me before I even know the rules.
That ain't right, man.
When you're right, Namond, you're right.
Hey, Mr.
P, I want me some of them stickers.
Zenobia, you have to do your work.
I want to but I ain't got no pencils.
I don't want no damn welfare pencil.
It seems to me there are two kinds of kids walking in this building - stoop kids and corner kids.
Excuse me? - Stoop kids stay on their front steps when their parents tell them.
The others go down to the corners.
They can't sit still in the class.
The others can and do.
So, separate the two.
That's tracking.
Excuse me? - Tracking students.
It's a nasty phrase in educational circles.
The grouping of children - based on expected performance.
What's wrong with it? It says you have reduced expectations for certain students, that you expect less from them academically.
So you pretend to teach all these kids.
Truth is, you ain't teaching any of them.
What if the stoop kids could be in classrooms where there was no disruptions? - And the corner kids? - They're the ones you're after, right? - That's why you got the grant money.
If it doesn't involve warehousing children, I'm for anything that allows me to do my job.
Every teacher here will say the same.
The trick for you is to come up with a program that actually addresses itself to the corner kids.
We pull kids out of classes - won't they be stigmatized? There's no stigma in being booted out of class every day? Question is, how do we identify the corner kids? That won't be a problem.
OK.
OK.
You understand the work? Come on, this is easy.
I know you can do it.
You're not giving me a choice.
You have detention.
Yo, Na', Mrs.
D shaking bushes.
Back to your seats.
Motherfuck! She got my blade, yo.
I said, back to your seats.
Yo, Mrs.
D be stealing shit.
I ain't never gonna get my blade back.
Yo, what are you all up on me for? I do my work.
I'm not your yo.
Show me your work.
Yeah, I see.
Yo, my head hurting from all this learning.
You got some Tylenol? - What I got for you is detention.
Oh! - Fuck you, Prezbo.
Oh! Fucking gimpy-assed, big-girl motherfucker.
That's it.
You're out of here! Go! Get your police stick out your desk and beat me.
You know you fucking want to.
Ooh! - Everyone, back in your seat.
The fuck you looking at, bitch? - Oh, Ms.
Sampson, I - Namond Brice, if you weren't headed to the main office, you are now.
Yeah, I was just One of the corner kids, huh? Yeah, they do step up when you need them, don't they? Look, what? You want me to say you right? You right.
I should have had protection at the card game.
Done is done.
Now we need to decide what we're gonna do about Omar.
You make the price right, somebody gonna get a whiff of that bushwhacker's ass.
Now you take it from there.
You think so? I ain't saying Omar can't be got.
Any nigger can be got.
But once we put word to ear and he learn that we pricing out his head, he's gonna be trying us like we're trying him.
You saying I should let it slide? - Nah.
Nah, we get at him another way, get at him without no bounties, no bullshit like that.
Barksdale turned this town upside down hunting him.
All he ended up looking was weak.
I ain't no Barksdale.
I'm just saying talk is cheap.
We sit on it, figure out a way to get that faggot.
But till then we don't say a mumbling word.
I got me six now, and I'll give you the four later, all right? Come on! - Nah.
I'm gonna need the whole ten now.
Sherrod! - You ain't in school? - Half a day - teachers' meeting.
I told you about those lame excuses, man.
I was talking to him first.
No need for physical contact.
You got $4 for me? I'm short $4.
What the fuck? Oh! Got a cart full of shit, nigger.
What you got for me? I know you holding.
Where's it at? You ain't hear? OK.
It's in my shoemy shoe.
Don't need the four now, son.
Damn, yo, where the shovel at? Bury that nigger, man.
Here you go, sir.
Tommy Carcetti, running for mayor.
Good luck, Tommy.
You got my vote.
Thanks.
Tommy Carcetti.
Here you go.
Good luck, Councilman.
How you doing? Tommy Carcetti, running for mayor.
OK, Councilman, time to hit the West Side.
Pretty motherfucker - he's gonna make me go to my game face.
OK, I'll take 25 of the honeysuckle incense cones - they'll keep me healthy for next week.
Tommy! - Excuse me.
Tony Gray's people say 20 minutes at their place.
Shit, Clarence.
Look like you did in '98 when you surprised the hell out of everyone.
Bring 'em on.
Huh? Why give it to us? Why don't you stick it to Royce? Because after what Tommy did at the debate, it'll seem like more of the same if it comes from him.
And if we use it to take four or five points out of Royce's base, it helps him as much as us.
Once bitten, twice shy.
With Tommy Carcetti, I got to always think a step ahead.
Look, Tony, you ain't gonna win.
So the only question is whether you wanna lose with 24% of the vote or 28%.
You bring the numbers up, you look good for the legislature - maybe a congressional run.
Albert Stokes.
Here.
Mr.
P, can I go? My mom told me to go straight home after school.
Mine, too.
Mine, too.
You should have thought of that before you smeared ink all over my desk.
Weren't my fault.
My pen exploded.
Michael.
Michael Lee? Mr.
P, please, can I go? I ain't eat no lunch and my stomach making all these noises.
Look, I won't ever disrespect your pencil again, I promise.
Zenobia, it wasn't about the pencil.
Please, Mr.
P.
Come on, Mr.
P.
OK, OK, all right.
All right.
Just this one time, I'll make an exception.
But next time, expect to stay the full hour.
Why are you here? - Came to say sorry.
I didn't mean to get all up in your face like that.
I appreciate that, Namond.
It takes courage to admit when you're wrong.
I can't understand - I've seen you in Ms.
Sampson's class, working.
Why can't you do the same in here? - I mean to, I do.
It's just the evil get in me and before I know it, I go off.
Well, tomorrow we'll see if we can't do better.
Can't tomorrow.
Mrs.
D put me out.
I gotta bump.
Later, Mr.
P.
If you can wait outside It's OK.
He can stay.
Thank you.
Mr.
P, you know Michael can't make it to detention.
I know he didn't.
Now it's doubled.
He's got two days to serve.
Nah, I mean, he can't.
He got to go pick up his little brother from school.
He'll have to find somebody else to do that.
It ain't like that.
I mean, Michael would come if he could but wouldn't have nobody else to pick up his little brother Bug.
You know, his mother, she on that stuff.
We walking home.
You coming? No, I'm waiting on Alpo.
Ms.
Sampson got him doing detention.
You gonna be here till five o'clock.
She a hard lady.
Don't ever give a brother no play.
All right.
I'll holla at you later.
All right, yo.
So you're not gonna be in the NBA? Then it must be the NFL? I thought all the boys in class were gonna join the pros.
Nah, that's just something we say.
So what about you? - What do you wanna be when you grow up? - I'm gonna own my own store.
That's smart.
You're gonna need to know a lot of math.
You left them in there.
Hey, don't worry, Mr.
P.
We got you.
Hey, Donut! - Yo, yeah.
Donut's crazy with cars.
He can open anything.
Hey.
What up, man? - Yo, he locked his keys in there.
It's OK, I can call AAA.
Oh, no problem, chief.
Feel the need to work them corners, huh? You don't need to be doing what you're doing.
I need to learn some shit on my own.
I'm trying to help you, Sherrod, but you making it so I can't.
I didn't even know the man who beat on you, Bubs.
He was short of money on the corner.
I swear he wasn't nothing to me.
But when the shit start, there's nothing to be done, right? What would I have done if he started whaling on you? Same kind of nothing, see? That's how the corners be.
They going to use you up, Sherrod.
You welcome to stay tonight but you ain't in school tomorrow morning, this partnership need to be done.
These two precincts are the bellwether for the Fifth.
If you can take even 18% out of Carcetti in these, it's a good guess he won't have the numbers citywide.
Who are we ticketed with here? The NDO, I hope .
.
because This amid allegations that high-ranking police officials intervened to have a veteran police detective removed from the controversial case.
The Braddock murder became a focal point in the mayoral campaign when Councilman Thomas Carcetti alleged the West Baltimore man was killed because he was a witness in the case.
They were afraid the police would prove what they most fear, that Fredro Braddock was murdered because he was a witness and the city failed to protect him.
It's on all three channels.
And the Sun and the Post are both calling for comment.
My sources in the department say rank-and-file officers are appalled - by this blatant political manipulation.
Damn, turn it up.
Hey, Greggs, you're famous.
.
.
is to remove a highly-decorated veteran with 15 years' experience as a murder investigator without reason - That'd be me.
.
.
replaced with a rookie yet to handle a single homicide investigation - That'd be you.
.
.
then we need to rethink The fuck I ever do to him? - You gonna make it too heavy, yo.
It might work if we make it bigger.
It'd work with balsa wood.
It's light and strong.
Man, you so full of Oh, shit.
Zombie Master.
Need to take us a little walk.
Nah, I'm good here.
Yo.
Young 'uns need to move along.
Sure, Chris, we'll bump.
Yo, Snoop, your sister in my class.
What the fuck? You high, nigger? You boys be smoking that shit? Hearing good things about you.
Say you straight up, take care of your people, not begging no handouts.
Motherfucker, you hear the nigger talking to you, giving you praises and shit.
You standing here looking fucking stupid.
Yo, chill.
Sometimes she get a little hot.
I'm just saying the boy ain't right! Yo, we always in the market for a good soldier.
When we see one we like, we take care of the situation - take him in, school him, make him family.
And if you're with us, you're with us, just like we'd be with you all the way.
You have a mind, you're in.
Look, man.
I already got a family - my moms and my little brother.
Yeah, heard that.
But think on it.
We'll be around if you need something.
He saw me, yo.
I knew it.
I knew Chris was asking Michael about me.
I knew it, man.
I'm dead.
Yo, man, good looking-out.
Yeah.
I thought he was gonna - I know.
What he ask about me? I know he asked about me.
What did you tell him? - Calm down.
It weren't even about you.
Yo, for real, you need to tell me.
What did he ask you? Yo, you right, man.
Chris was all up in your business.
He down on you for some deep shit, man.
I don't even know what.
Nah, I'm just fucking with you, man.
He didn't even speak your name.
Oh, man.
So, Erv, what's next? Your officers gonna shoot a couple of tourists? Maybe fly a helicopter into Harbor Place? What can we expect the last week of my re-election campaign? Sir, I did what you asked - no more, no less.
Hamsterdam - legalized drug zone? - He takes responsibility for that.
The subpoenas all over town.
That, too.
The leak about the witness murder.
That was his shop too, right? - Hell, yeah.
And now this last thing, transferring detectives off the case.
What is that? What is that? - Scuttling the investigation.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, that's awful.
Jesus! - Mr.
Mayor, you asked me to slow that investigation down.
Subtle, Ervin.
Mm? You hold a few facts for a few weeks.
You put a report or two in a desk drawer.
But the transferring of people off a case? Look, you told me You specifically wanted me to not Ervin, you may leave.
Mr.
Mayor - That will be all, Commissioner.
Uh No, I need a word or two with your deputy, Ervin.
Have a seat.
I tried to warn him.
If it leaked out of Homicide about the dead witness, why wouldn't it leak that we bumped a detective? Why didn't you come to us beforehand? I'm a loyal subordinate, Mr.
Mayor, and Ervin is a good man working under considerable pressure.
He's a hack.
You're not bothered by the pressure, Deputy? Not in the least.
I need you to make this go away, Bill.
I won't forget, believe me.
Another thing - Slim Charles got up with me.
Said the fat man want a sitdown.
No.
I did that already.
Slim say the fat man knew the card game was gonna get took.
He did, did he? Set it up.
Why you always be back here? - Quiet.
And I can see what comes.
But you out in the weather and shit.
Don't like to speak in no rooms.
Yeah.
Yo, you ain't staying long.
So you know, I almost got that for you.
I just need a couple of days more.
You can keep my money for now.
I got something needs doing.
Anything, Marlo, your call.
Omar gonna come in your store, stick it up, rob you.
You gonna call the police, make a report.
You feel me? Yeah, that'll work, but you know when he get out, he's coming right at me.
I ain't scared or nothing.
I'm just saying, you know? - He ain't gonna get out.
A man make bail on robbery.
Make it no bail.
If you have a problem, like you can't make it to detention, you need to tell me.
That's your responsibility.
People will be more than willing to help you out but it's up to you to ask.
You can go back to the cafeteria or hang up here.
Duquan, could you come here? I thought maybe you could help me out - I packed too much.
Take this down to the cafeteria and get yourself something to drink from the machine.
Thank you.
Crystal, you got a second? What's up with Duquan? I gave him some new clothes.
I was expecting He might have lost them.
That fast? It weren't that.
His people take his clothes, sell it on the corners.
You're kidding.
No, sir.
Everybody knows.
Which brings me to what we're proposing - different kids, different approaches.
You tell us who we need to touch at North Avenue to get the go-ahead.
The Puzzle Palace? Look, if y'all still wanna jump in and help, I'm fine with it.
That's about all the OK you need in my house.
The Stricker Street situation is waiting in the office.
Neighborhood squabbles, and my babies bring it in here.
Two fights yesterday - all because the mothers can't get along.
I gotta go.
Mrs.
Donnelly'll work out the nuts and bolts.
But just so you hear it, thank you.
It'll be the only time anyone in this system will think to say it.
He's a good man.
You need to protect him.
Protect him? Principal Withers just went out on a limb for you, and in this system they know how to handle a chainsaw.
Excuse me? Anyone has a problem with what we're doing, it's on him.
So, you specified eighth-graders? We have 256 on roll.
Of those, 40 or so would fit your bill of corner kids.
Pretty workable.
What would you suggest? - Start with ten or so.
Ms.
Sampson has enough to get you going.
One of them named Namond Brice? Pick of the litter.
But you'll have to wait.
He's on a three-day suspension.
Remember when I was a cadet, I was up here on a cadaver search.
Instructor gets on the radio to say, "We're looking for one body in particular.
"If you go grabbing everyone you see, we'll be here all day," he says.
Leakin Park where West Baltimore brings out its dead.
Not any more, from the look of things.
Not by the roadside, anyway.
If he's dumping them here, he's dumping them deep in the woods.
Come on.
At each raid site, we're anticipating dope or cash or guns.
All warrants are for prime locations linked to high-level violators.
Weeks-old addresses linked to low-level corner boys.
We'll also be sweeping drug corners at these locations.
Wagons will hold in this location here.
Jump-off time - 1500 hours.
We take our position ten minutes before the assault here.
The go is on my say-so.
Questions? Excellent.
We'll hold in the rec room till it's time to stage.
Warrants are one thing, but street sweeps on Marlo's crews? Are you guys serious? Carv, you give these hoodleheads too much credit.
Trust me on this, Boy Wonder.
Never mind this horseshit.
What've they got you doing for your man? Who, the lieutenant? No, Royce.
Herc, the mayor's your meal ticket.
He gets another four years, you're liable to wear the gold braid.
Shouldn't you be out waving a campaign sign or some shit? And so ends the last crusade of the Major Crimes Unit - with a whimper.
Lester would cry to see his wiretap cannibalized for that crap.
Street sweeps on Marlo Stanfield? - So what else you got cooking? - Narcotics cases? CID has the Burman indictment coming in.
Nothing past that.
As wars go, this drug thing seems to rate less and less.
If Demper wins and manages to forgive my trespasses, maybe I'll go in and beg for something new.
I don't know.
Just feels like enough's enough.
Crutchfield, line two, Intake.
Sergeant, you were looking for me? - I was, yeah.
Curly fry? Chicken doohickey? Sit down.
Norris is back on the Braddock case.
It's by order of the deputy ops.
In fact, we're going with a story that says he was never off the case, that you and he are partnered, a task force of two, working it together.
Fuck you, fat man.
Not original, but succinct.
I like your approach.
Y'all humiliate me once by dropping me into this thing, and now you're gonna shame me again by bringing Norris back.
This is Homicide, Detective.
This is not some boiler room unit where no one pays attention to whatever the fuck it is you call police work.
The bosses? They know our names up here.
Now I didn't like it when they came to me and told me to dump Norris, but dump him I did.
And it's not like I wanna carry water for them now they're pretending they never told me to do any such thing, but carry the water I will.
And in the end, when everyone else in this unit is buried and beshitted, this detective sergeant will still be standing.
So get the story straight - Norris was always the primary, and you are now assisting on an investigation which is progressing even as we speak.
Does the colonel know about this? He's in the hospital.
Chemo didn't work.
Press conference is upstairs in half an hour.
So don't be late.
Press conference? Mm-hm.
I ain't mean to laugh at you none.
I know it sound crazy but I ain't joking.
For real, Lex a zombie.
I knew it way before what Na' and them was saying.
Listen, they had me tell Lex to go up to the playground.
I told him to go up there and see some girl.
He ain't never come back down.
So what they gonna do to me when they get mad at me? It makes sense Chris taking them into the vacants - to change 'em.
And you know what else? - That ain't what he doing, Chris in the vacants? Changing them? He ain't changing them, he killing them.
That's all.
They're getting killed.
How you know? Can't tell nobody.
I seen it.
I seen them walk a boy up into one house over there on Calhoun.
You seen that? Yeah.
That's just false.
Detective Norris has been working this case nonstop and, given her narcotics expertise, Detective Greggs was assigned to augment rather than to replace him.
But for two days sources inside the department were saying I'm inside the department, and I'm telling you that's not true.
We do not play politics with a criminal investigation.
And how do you explain Councilman Gray's allegations? I think you should ask Councilman Gray that question.
Police! Search warrant! - Take the back.
On the ground, now! - Police! Search warrant! Two upstairs.
Don't move! - Check that back room.
Get your ass on the ground.
Get down! - Get down! - This is the 1300 block, right? - No, this is the 12.
Are we on the right corner? - We had this as a stash house? - According to the wiretap.
How long ago? They move 'em around.
Zeroes on the warrants.
Minor arrests on the designated corners, sir.
They were tipped! - You think? For us to come up this empty at all these locations, it has to be.
This cocksucker Marlo thinks he's smarter than us? He is not.
Sergeant, I want to know where he hangs.
You mean like him personally? - He moves around, Lieutenant.
He floats.
But I have seen him in the concrete park behind Fulton.
In a park? - He sits out there, holds court.
He's got people covering every approach so there's no creeping up on him.
My guess is that he likes to talk outdoors so no one can drop a microphone on him.
Sergeant, what can we do with that? I admit I've made some mistakes, Burrell being one of the biggest.
But he's got a job for about ten more days.
After the primary, he's gone, believe me.
And that last stunt - pulling a detective.
What'd you expect? - Not that.
Hey, I had nothing to do with that nonsense.
That's a straight-up lie.
I was at that damn meeting when you told him, - "Slow the case down.
" - I didn't mean Who the hell knows what you mean any more, Clarence? Look at this.
Look at it! You gave me your word on this - your word, Clarence.
But here you are ticketed up with Eunetta in her best precincts and then ticketed up with my girl Daniels where she's running strong.
Odell, this is the first I've seen this.
Come on, now! This is probably Eunetta's people pulling this shit.
With a "Citizens for Royce" authority line? Look at you, Clarence.
Just look at you.
You've forgotten your agenda.
You've forgotten your base.
You think a shave and some Marcus Garvey posters are gonna get you over? You think that's gonna make up for jumping in bed with every damn developer? Shit.
You're even on Clay Davis's tit.
Don't go getting all self-righteous with me, Odell.
Campaign runs on dollars - you know it.
Whose dollars? Those sons of bitches you got around your card table every month feeding your kitty? Oh, yeah, I know about that too.
You - trouble with you Fuck you, Clarence.
I'm gonna sit what's left of this one out.
I'm gonna sit it out.
Sit it out.
The primary? - Sit it out! Odell.
Odell! Who the hell do you think you are, huh? Come November, I'm still gonna be the only game in town! Turn your back on me now, I won't forget! We can't afford this.
We need his organization on Tuesday.
Go after him! Fuck that holier-than-thou motherfucker! Delegate Watkins.
Delegate Watkins! Wait, sir.
I'm sure we can work this out.
You and the mayor can talk this through.
Deputy Rawls, please.
It's Lieutenant Hoskins at the Hall.
You're gonna use the hole in the wall, right? Yeah, I'm gonna rub some dogshit on the front of this thing.
I don't want nobody touching it.
Got it? You need to raise it a bit.
Yeah, that's good.
Right there, that works.
Thought I heard something.
Rats.
How we doing? - We need to go.
He ain't nothing but a skanky-ass bitch to begin with.
And besides, he ex-police.
So you know what that like.
I'm going to the ladies' room.
Bey, you need to talk to him.
Visiting hour ends in 30 minutes.
Visiting hour - Yo, Daddy, don't even go there, with you all the time telling me how you dropped out in the sixth grade, went up on the corner with Avon and Stringer, earned cheese for the family, saying how it made you a man All right, all right.
You right.
Can't throw rocks.
But I'm just saying, you know how your mother be, with all the fussing.
Maybe you just need to slow it up.
You know what I'm saying? Yo, you heard how Marlo punked Bodie? Said he either got to work for him or give up his corner.
Don't you know, his sorry ass buckled.
You'd have gone about it different? Yeah, I'd have stood tall, like you.
Got my nine - fuck Chris and them.
Listen to you, all spit and fire.
You'd have gone to the mattress all by your lonesome and went up against half of the West side.
You got it where it counts, and I respect that more than anything.
But shit out there now ain't like it was when we was coming up.
Back in the day, a punk nigger like Marlo steps out, breaking the rules and shit, he find himself in the back of a car trunk on the way to Leakin Park.
No doubt.
We did that shit right.
Word was your bond.
Man looked out for his own, knowing he in a family.
Dig where I'm coming from? But today it's all fucked up.
These steps.
Thank you, baby.
You're good to go.
Hi.
Say "Omar".
Omar.
Nothing? We checked both sides of the street from here up to Monroe.
Nothing? - Nothing that don't belong in no sewer.
Thanks.
Other ideas? Woo! Blood, bump me off that nigger up the skreet.
Motherfucker in the Bruick? That'd be him.
I be saying, no motherfucker gonna run off with my hairon.
This is fucking great.
Get somebody who reads lips, this motherfucker's history.
Is this legal - I mean, intercepting what they're saying? Don't go Freamon on me.
Shit.
I got to run.
What about some fucking relief? I been here all morning! You heard? They making movies.
Yeah.
How you wanna play it? I ain't sure.
Let's see the fat man.
How'd the other thing turn out? All good.
Yo.
What up, boy? - If you want somethin', I got Reese's.
Nah, man.
You trying to make some real cheese? $5? - What you need? Me and Paul gonna get it on with Tiff.
Keep an eye out.
I don't want Mrs.
D creeping up.
Feel me? I feel you, but I got some sixth-graders waiting on a special order.
Let them wait, man.
It ain't like we gonna be all day.
All right.
No, ma'am, it says right here - His Honor had the Bureau of Solid Waste conduct a clean sweep along Tivoly.
It took six months before they showed up.
Well, yeah, OK, but nobody's perfect.
But hey, listen.
I wouldn't be sitting here if I didn't believe Clarence Royce wasn't truly committed to this city and its people.
And crime in our neighborhood? - That's another good point.
But, lady, between you and me, I can tell from your voice you're black and you can tell from my voice I'm white.
So I gotta ask you, when do you think the last time a white man voted for a black man when there was another white man in the race? I don't know, but you must really believe in him.
Ain't that what I been saying? He's just the best candidate.
So you'll go with my man? - I'll think about it.
That's great.
Thank you for your time.
Bye-bye.
All right.
I have a hall pass.
Yeah, good for you.
Mine's down.
Attaboy.
You need bodies, Lester? Here you go.
We got a warrant and a teletype for my boy Lex.
So dead or alive, he's on file.
And beyond that, it's time for you to shine that mighty intellect of yours on some real murders.
Give up the hypotheticals and shit.
Yeah, I suppose.
This is my issue - crime, and I understand completely what you're saying.
And if you give me the opportunity, I will be able to do something to help you out and, you know, other people in this neighborhood.
Mr.
Ricks, thank you for your time and for your attention.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Pretty brazen, shaking hands with the enemy in broad daylight.
Werner's Deli this isn't.
Definitely not.
Though here you are, Councilman, leaving no door unopened.
Shoe leather - our secret weapon.
You surprised me.
You've made this a horse race.
So what makes me think you didn't just happen by and find us here? Watkins is breaking with the mayor.
How do you know? I know.
I've carried the mayor's water because I had to, Councilman.
I'd love to see some new blood in this city.
And I'd love the chance to do the right thing for this police department for a change.
Wait until he turns the corner.
District office for Watkins - Gilmore Street.
And fuck them red lights, man.
Not a place you expect to find any gangsters - police, for that matter.
Heard you knew something I didn't.
Told you before, I make it my business to keep an ear to the ground.
I make it my business to do business.
We doing business, or are we just talking? And if it's talk, I'm-a walk.
I heard the people pulling security at the card game weren't too keen on their wages.
I figured it was only a matter of time before they found a way to get their due compensation.
And you didn't think to tell me? A man learns best when he get burned.
How do I know you ain't making this shit up? You don't.
Things happen on the street.
Proof is hard to come by.
Go ahead, open it.
Off the street, there's all kind of proof.
They planning on executing those Friday - time it with the election, I guess, show they doing their job, cleaning up the city, taking down a kingpin.
How did you come by this? Told you before, I keep my ear to the ground.
What are you gonna do with it? - Maybe nothing.
Charlie's not part of the co-op.
Or maybe I tip him for a fee.
What do you think a man with a whole lot of money would pay for his freedom? You know, lately I come to find out someone trying to take pictures on me.
Pictures? - Video.
You heard anything about me through your travels? Had no incentive to listen.
You do now.
It's one thing to sit out the primary.
It's another for me to turn on Clarence Royce.
Granted.
And if I did jump, why not land behind Tony Gray? At least he's from my side of the tracks.
Tony can't win.
I can.
Look, the truth is, whatever I can do for you, the mayor can match or double.
I have a pretty good grass-roots organization but nothing even close to his kind of money.
Now, I'll ticket up with anyone you want me to.
I know you want Daniels in the 11th and Stokes in the 10th.
I'll keep away from any tickets you think I might harm.
I know I'm not everyone's idea of a bargain on your side of town.
But right now, a week from the primary, the fact is, Royce and I both need you.
After the election, the equation changes for him but not for me.
I'm a white mayor in a majority-black city, and if I'm gonna do anything - and, Delegate, I am so serious about fixing this city - I'm gonna have to govern by consensus.
If you support me, you will have a voice within my administration simply because I'm gonna need it.
Last poll that Clarence showed me, he was up by seven points.
Bullshit.
I'm within four.
You won't be needing that.
I know.
Here? - Yeah, here.
Dag.
Yo, turn it off - the bulb might have got too hot.
Or the battery's dying.
We should go back.
Yo, man, it stinks, man.
Ain't like it was.
See, he ain't move.
Yeah.
Blood still stuck to his hair.
He dead? He dead.
Lex too? He dead.
They all is.
Feel better? Donut wrong, yo.
Ain't no special dead.
There's just dead.

Come on! On this Sunday before the primary when we will go to the polls to exercise our blessed franchise, our lesson comes from Exodus, chapter 18.
"And it came to pass on the morrow that Moses sat to judge the people: "and the people stood by him from the morning unto the evening.
"And Moses judged the people.
"And he shouldered this tremendous burden all alone.
"And one day, his father-in-law said to him, "'Moses, why do you carry "'this awesome responsibility by yourself? "'You need other wise men to help you rule justly over the people.
' "So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father-in-law, "and chose able men to rule over the people.
" - Can I preach it like I feel it? - Yes! Hey, hey, hey.
This Tuesday, when we choose the men and women who will lead our city, we would do well to keep those standards in mind.
Men of truth, who fear God and hate covetousness.
Hallelujah! Hallelujah! God bless you.
Good to see you.
How you doing? - Just fine.
How's Mama? Tell her I said hello.
Fellowship committee at 2:00? - If I'm late - We'll wait.
All right.
Thank you for coming, young man, young lady.
Reverend.
Councilman.
Mrs.
Carcetti.
How are you? - Thank you so much.
Interesting sermon.
Polls show you have a chance.
We're within the margin of error.
Margin of error.
Interesting phrase.
And I see you've got Delegate Watkins working the crowd.
I hope he's not going to be the only one.
I'll tell you what, I will keep an open mind until I walk into that booth on Tuesday and if you win You're holding me to a high standard.
Moses? I mean, Jesus Tommy.
I'm sorry.
I can't believe I said that.
Moses will do for now.
We'll save Jesus for your second term.
Have a good one.
Thank you so much for coming.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole - Signs o' life? - Not even a lookout.
Maybe they went to church.
Our Lady of the Re-up.
He'll show up sooner or later.
Call me.
All right.
Vote for Carcetti.
Vote for Carcetti on Tuesday.
Tommy Carcetti running for mayor.
Hello, Councilman.
I've been following your campaign.
I'm a teacher.
Excellent.
High-school biology.
In the city? - Baltimore County.
I think your position on school-board reform is very encouraging.
So you'd vote for me? - If I lived in the city, I would.
Good luck on Tuesday.
Thank you.
Carcetti for mayor! - They're all fucking county people.
We're almost done here.
Thomas, look at this.
What's that? Check it out.
Did you ever represent a Bobby Harrison? - The slumlord? Fuck, no.
I don't remember ever meeting this guy.
"Carcetti got the most serious charges dismissed and the others reduced.
"The slumlord walked free with a slap on the wrist "while hundreds of tenants suffer substandard conditions.
" Last-minute smear.
They're scared.
Royce.
Who else? Bobby Harrison's name is dirt in this town.
Two days before the election and they smear me? Courthouse steps.
When the fuck was this taken? - It's a fake.
They Photoshopped it.
Can we prove that? - We can try.
Try, shit.
I'm gonna lose behind this.
Easy, Tommy.
We always figured they'd pull some last-minute shit.
At least now we know what it is.
Fuck.
I want you to remember, you're representing your dad.
Yeah, I know.
What she wanna see us for, anyway? Maybe she got somethin' special in mind for you, boy.
Hm, cool.
She's a Barksdale.
She know talent when she sees it.
Besides, they owe this family a lot.
Your daddy, he stood tall for them.
I know, I know.
He a soldier.
Like father, like son.
No doubt.
What time you got? - Half three.
Motherfucker late.
Yo! It's for you, Marlo.
Yeah, speak.
You on it.
As long as she hit her mark, we straight.
What time I gotta pick up that skinny girl? A'ight.
So what time they say? - Tomorrow night.
She be on the 8:45 from New York.
Yeah.
We can take care of that.
No.
I'll do it.
Don't want nothin' to go wrong.
You sure about that? It's a'ight.
You can hang back on this.
Yeah, I think I got this one, too.
Marlo Stanfield.
He ain't so much.
Using cell phones and shit.
What's he sayin' now? "What time I gotta pick up the skinny girl? "I do it.
"Don't want nothing to go wrong.
" Maybe he's picking up a girlfriend? "Skinny girl from New York"? It's code.
Cocaine.
Damn.
For Marlo himself to get near a package He's a mope.
I told ya.
So what do we do about it? - Work up some counter lit.
That's why we have a printer on retainer.
Best if we run down the original photograph.
If we prove this one's a fake I didn't work at Sun Papers for 22 damn years not to know somebody.
I'll call Paul McCardle at the photo library.
And if we still can't find it? - We put out a fake photo of our own.
Show Royce in a motel with a dead girl and a live boy.
We can't sling mud back.
Not this late.
Relax.
I'm kidding.
You get back on your schedule.
Hit all your stops.
Go to that donors' dinner tonight and make nice.
We'll take care of this.
You can't do this to us.
Bey took the weight for all y'all.
You've been amply compensated.
But time moves on.
Not for Bey, it don't.
What I meant to say is there's no more money coming in.
No more business.
Avon is gone.
So are his people.
Shit.
You seem to still be doin' all right for yourself.
There's nothing more I can do for you.
Bey know everything.
You forget that? And what's he gonna do? Who's he gonna tell? And what do I care if he does? Bey never heard me say a damn thing about business.
What about your brother? Avon could be gone longer if Bey gets to speakin' his mind.
I couldn't care less about Avon.
The thing is, I wanted you both to hear it from me so there ain't no lies from here on in.
She even paid enough over the last two years that you should have enough money going forward, son.
Your father has not been disrespected here.
You both got what was coming.
But ain't nothing lasts forever.
Jailhouse snitch? Called last overnight.
Worden talked to him.
Says for a deal, he can give us the case.
No shit.
Gonna write up a writ, send it over to the State's Attorney's office, get them to sign off on it first thing tomorrow.
What's the rush? We jump on this.
We cause a major shit stink before the election.
If this guy really knows why the witness - Braddock.
.
.
was killed Might be bad for the mayor.
If it's not bad for the white boy, Carcetti.
You care, either way? Fuck no.
I don't give a shit either way.
I don't even vote.
But it'll be fun to fuck with them downtown suits.
Maybe get you on the 11:00 news.
Get a little payback for all that shit they put you through.
With only two days left before the primary, campaign officials traded charges today over a controversial flier distributed in some African-American neighborhoods.
What seemed to be a secure lead for the incumbent mayor has evaporated in recent days.
The latest Sun-WQMD poll shows the two men in a virtual dead heat with Councilman Tony Gray trailing.
Four per cent of the likely voters are still undecided, and with the prime I can't wait for it to be over.
Yeah, me either.
Can that flier hurt you? You know, we found the original photo in The Sun's files.
They grafted my puss onto some perp-walk shot on the courthouse steps.
I'm standing where a sheriff's deputy was.
My God.
What a nasty business.
Royce swears he had nothing to do with it.
Claims it must've been somebody freelancing.
Well, Norman and Terri say not to worry.
It's all in the game.
You know, when I was 15 points behind, I was resigned, you know? A landslide, I could live with that.
What else did anyone expect anyway? White guy running for mayor in Baltimore? But this? Jen, if I lose this here by two points, it's gonna kill me.
It's gonna just fucking kill me.
You gonna have to step up now, Na'.
A'ight.
Be the man of the family.
You older than your daddy was when he went out on the corner.
That's what I been sayin'.
Damn.
He quit school.
You ain't quittin' school.
Not yet.
Ma.
But you are goin' out on your own.
You gonna ask Bodie for a package.
What if he say no? - I ain't take no for an answer.
Just did.
What you mean? - From Brianna.
Hand me the damn phone.
What she say about you already gettin' paid enough? She a lyin' bitch, Namond.
You see? There's a lot about this world you just don't know.
What it come down to is she know you ain't gonna snitch.
No matter what shit she pull.
She got that right.
She takin' advantage of you, Bey.
She takin' advantage of you.
Sound like she got it all figured.
Bitch got it figured out, all right.
She cuttin' us loose without notice.
Nothin'.
Like comin' home, findin' our shit in the street.
She don't give a fuck about you, Avon, none of it.
She had the nerve to talk to me on this, like she gonna set things straight so I don't tell no lies.
Jen, I'm sorry.
He said he'd be up.
He's already gone to the office.
Well, what's he doing there? He couldn't sleep.
He's been there for hours.
Aw, shit.
See ya.
We still have a shortage of officers willing to work secondary at the polling stations, so we're asking for anyone interested to contact Tactical this afternoon.
Next order of business: fresh warrants, beginning with murder and weapons charges on one Omar Little.
Anyone know this mutt? - Oh, yeah! - Who'd he kill? - Some lady in a store.
Reads like a taxpayer.
A taxpayer? He's charged with felony homicide, to wit: murder in the commission of a robbery.
About time someone got some paper on that motherfucker.
Anyhow, we got no fixed address, no known abode.
If apprehended, contact Detectives Holley and Crutchfield in Homicide.
You wanna find Omar Little? Look for a corner boy running away from a corner with shit in his pants.
You ever know Omar to do a citizen? Anyway, pass these around.
Jesus, Tommy.
I went over the latest data, rearranged the schedule.
A little bit of knowledge A bunch of middle class black precincts are strong on Tony but have a high undecided.
We can pick up votes - Those people hate the mayor.
You're gonna get those votes, or Gray will.
We go door to door today.
As long as they don't go to Royce.
I need black votes if I'm gonna be mayor.
I need some kind of mandate from that community.
If I sneak in with a bare plurality - We might just win.
What do you think kept me up all night? With all due respect to your early-morning analysis, we got three back-to-back drive-time radio interviews I wore out my kneepads to get.
The people running your campaign are professionals, Tommy.
Don't try this shit at home.
You know, there might just be a job for you in a Carcetti administration.
Press secretary, chief of staff.
Oh, get in the fucking car.
Duquan? - Mr.
Prez.
Can you come with me, please? What'd I do? Get here early.
I'll let you in, and you can shower.
My dirty clothes? Put 'em in this bag, leave 'em in the locker.
I'll bring 'em home and wash 'em.
Go ahead and get cleaned up.
You'll be late for class.
Hey, Paul.
Hey, Monnel.
Skanky ho.
Damn, she good, though.
Yeah.
You right about that.
Hey, yo, Tiff, baby.
I got 50 Cent too.
Fuck y'all.
Damn.
All three at once? You know she could.
I know you could.
Sir.
At ease.
I hate it when the bosses creep below the eighth floor.
Yeah, I need a moment just to unclench my asshole.
Sir? - The Braddock investigation.
It's coming.
Norris and Greggs are wringing it out.
I know.
Commissioner Burrell had a visit first thing this morning from State's Attorney Demper himself, asking why one day before the primary our detectives were trying to writ out a jailhouse snitch.
The tip came when it did.
I didn't push it, and I didn't hold it back either.
Let the chips fall where they may.
Exactly, sir.
Sergeant? Fuck your falling chips.
If Braddock was killed because he was a witness and we break the case one day before the primary, Royce hates us forever.
And Royce might win the election.
If Braddock was killed for any other reason and we break it today, then Carcetti hates our guts and Carcetti could win.
I see your point.
Tactical tells me we're still about 20 bodies short for manning the polling places.
I want you to detail two detectives to uniformed election duty immediately.
Let me guess: Norris and Greggs.
Sounds good.
They're to report to Tactical at 1300 today for election orientation.
They can pick up their writ and talk to their snitch on Wednesday.
American democracy.
Let's show those Third World fucks how it's done.
Yes, sir.
I have what I think is some very good news for all of you.
We're going to be implementing the University of Maryland pilot program.
Only three of my knuckleheads? A total of ten children from the eighth grade in this first class - eight boys and two girls.
If things go well - It's a start.
When? - This morning.
Hallelujah.
Not a moment too soon.
How was I? - Good on Steiner.
Better on the A.
M.
talk shows.
You handled that call about the fliers well.
Fucking Royce.
If I lose because of this bullshit You lose, we can blame it on ten different things.
Same thing if you win.
Guess who I just got off the phone with? State Senator Davis.
He wants a meet.
Clay Davis? Why would I wanna get into bed with that motherfucker? He didn't come out and say it, but it sounds like he's ready to follow Watkins and jump ship.
What's he want in return? Same thing he always wants.
At least 20K to his favorite campaign committee is my guess.
Maybe even 30, cos you know Clay ain't cheap.
Well, I'm not promising him anything policy-wise.
You think Clay Davis gives a fuck about policy? This is strictly for services rendered.
He might be conning us, taking the money, then sitting on his hands.
Maybe.
But then all we have to lose is money.
Could be the extra little push we need on the West Side.
Set it up.
I already did.
Invert the denominator - What invert mean? The numerator and the denominator switch places.
Turn upside down.
Why you do that? Because it works.
That's the formula.
Excuse me, Mr.
Pryzbylewski.
Namond Brice, Darnell Tyson and Zenobia Dawson.
Grab your things and come with us.
Oooh! - Quiet, quiet.
Calm down, please.
We in trouble? - Just come with me.
Shit.
It's the story of my life.
They ain't coming back.
Yo, Mr.
Prezbo, they gettin' arrested? - No I bet the police are out there waiting for them.
Na', can I have your Xbox? You ain't gonna need it where you are.
What'd they do? Markeith, Kwame and Latonya.
Bring your things and come with us.
Ooooh! Again? You know I can't publicly endorse you.
Not at this late hour.
Then what are we talking about? I lay back and not do what I usually do on election day.
I see you all get a push in the Seventh and Ninth Districts, say, and maybe that piece of the 11th west of Freemont.
I split some of my tickets for y'all.
I split my walkaround money.
You know, the usual to-and-fro.
Politics is a good thing, partner.
That's a minority opinion.
Let's order.
I'm hungry enough to eat the horse you rode in on.
If you don't mind, we're a little busy for a sit-down lunch.
Oh, no doubt.
Just leave enough for the tab.
No, she crazy.
She says you were there.
I wasn't.
It wasn't even rape.
She wanted to.
How do you know? You weren't there.
I saw her go in with them.
Go in with who? This is no time to play, young man.
You are in very serious trouble.
Who did you see her go in the boys' bathroom with? Paul and Monnel.
Paul and Monnel? And what were you doing? - Lookout.
So you were involved? I didn't see what happened.
You were standing guard.
Listen.
Monnel gave me $5 and told me to stand by the door and holler if someone came.
This ain't fair.
I ain't even do nothing.
You stood lookout while two boys raped an eighth-grade girl.
But she wanted to.
That's not what Tiffanie says.
There'll be an investigation.
You'll be suspended.
You could very well be expelled, maybe even face criminal charges.
Please don't.
Please don't call my foster mother.
I'll tell you everything I know.
I know all about it already.
I know some other stuff, like who been thieving from the teachers' lounge, or tagging gym lockers, or even Miss Jeffreys, please.
This is Mrs.
Donnelly from Tilghman Middle.
Listen I know Remember, the boy who cut Mr.
Philmont's tires? I know who did that.
I know about a murder.
I do.
We've identified certain students we feel will benefit from the special curriculum and the smaller class size.
We've chosen ten students from the eighth grade to participate in this program.
You get chose, you got to go? - That's right.
What if you don't wanna? It's mandatory.
We feel that this program will benefit everyone.
You'll get the attention you need.
Why we out? Everybody else shit.
My bad.
I ain't mean to curse.
Yeah, but you're right, though.
This class get tore up, it's only on y'all.
So we get put outta class.
This is a classroom, too.
And every one of you has proven time and again that you're not ready for a regular classroom.
But this is a new program that if you work it is going to make you ready.
Ready for gen pop.
This is prison, yo.
And we in solitary and shit.
Word.
Solitary.
That's good, son.
This is solitary.
This is the hole up in here.
He's a good kid.
He really is.
And once you make that call, his name's gonna be in the system.
What can I do? He says he knows about a murder.
I have to notify police on this.
At least let me call someone I trust.
That's him right there.
Stand by.
You don't wanna be in? No.
If you take it, he'll think it's a straight interdiction, and I get to surprise him at the bail review.
Good evening.
Can I have your attention? Now boarding at gate letter D, track 4, the southbound making station stops at BWI Rail Station and Union Station, Washington.
Sister, help you with your bag? - No, thank you.
Don't be afraid.
Why should I be afraid? Who are you? - Just walk you to the door.
My husband is waiting outside.
Like to meet him.
I'll wait with you, make sure you're safe.
That really won't be necessary.
Amtrak police, sir.
Could you step over here please? - What is this? - Give me the bag.
What is going on? I don't know this man.
Where are you taking me? - What did he say about it? - Nothing much.
Drugs? I didn't question him too close.
A murder.
I should take it downtown.
Who knows what he really knows? I just I don't want to see him get chewed up by the system.
Let me try to keep this close, give it to someone with a little bit of discretion.
Appreciate it.
Carver.
Carver? Ellis has come a long way.
I think he'd be right for this.
Why do you care? And what's this kid to you? I don't know.
He's one of my students.
Sergeant.
Clean.
Both of 'em.
Say what? Nothing in that bag but ladies clothes.
Nothing dirty on either one of 'em.
Unless you got another idea, we gotta cut 'em loose.
From what he says, he was just a go-between.
He delivered a message.
He told the victim to be at a certain place at a certain time.
Then how does he know? He says everyone knows what happened to Lex.
It's in the streets.
This other thing at the school.
I swear I didn't do it, Miss Anna.
I didn't do it.
You'll see.
School's gonna look into that, we're gonna look into this.
As long as Randy cooperates, tells the truth - But if word got out - Understand.
That's why he's gonna go to school, keep his mouth shut, his nose clean, go about his business.
Child's shown such bad judgment in both instances.
Agreed.
But from what I can tell, he's not a bad kid.
Dennis? Where you goin' at so early? I'm gonna go run, and then I got lawn work later.
You comin' back, right? What you mean am I comin' back? It's gonna be like that, huh? What do you mean? Like what? - Where to? - Highlandtown.
Flush out yo' base, trooper.
What up, Spider? - Hey.
Thank you, but I know how I'm voting.
I'm gonna be late for work.
Miss Anna, is it OK if I stand out here while you go vote? - Don't you go nowhere, boy.
Yes, ma'am.
So, what up, man? So, how much they payin' you for this? They say like 40, but I gotta work the whole day though.
Know what I mean? Yo, Spider.
That was Spider, right? - Yeah.
Where he go? No, thank you, man.
I can't vote.
Conviction? Felony? Move on, man.
A'ight, man.
You see Spider again, you tell him he need to come past my gym.
He ain't been round in weeks, and we need to talk.
A'ight.
Where's the older kid? - I don't know.
OK.
You're hired.
Shove one of those into every hand you can.
Thank you very much.
Why you ain't at school? - Ain't no school today.
One them Jew holidays? - Election.
So what you gonna do? Dunno.
Hang.
What'd I say about steppin' up? Brianna turn off the faucet.
We gotta make some rain.
I'm gonna get dressed.
We go see Bodie.
Kid, I got something else for you.
Put one in every door between the expressway and Winchester, and from Freemont to Fulton.
You can do it by yourself or get some friends, but I'm gonna come past, make sure it's done.
OK.
One in each door.
Cool.
This is for the day's work.
Wow! That's your walk-around.
But don't you fail me.
Took forever.
What's all this, son? Man said if I put these fliers in doors, I can get paid.
I'll come right home after.
You right you will.
You ain't in these streets no more.
No, ma'am.
Sounds like she mean it.
11:00 News, huh? - Shut up.
I'm on this shit detail because you wanted to stir the pot.
Tomorrow, if we bust open the Braddock case, nobody's gonna give a fuck.
Life is timing.
No shit, fucknuts.
How you doing? - He's a cute one.
Thanks.
Hope you're voting today.
I am.
Who's it gonna be? Give me a hint.
Come on.
Don't keep me in suspense.
You don't have to worry.
Appreciate it.
Tommy Carcetti, running for mayor.
Nice to meet ya.
How much longer? - Wrap this up.
We got a lot more places.
Tommy Carcetti.
I knew your dad.
First District Democratic Club.
No kidding.
Just wanted to say you got my vote.
Thank you.
They had their chance.
Look what shape the city's in.
I hope to turn things around.
Thanks for your support.
You expect politicians to steal - I don't, actually.
It's part of the game.
I understand.
But we took one dollar outta every three, not two outta three, like these moolies.
I mean, leave something for the city, for Christ sake.
Am I right? Best of luck, Councilman.
Moolies? - Sorry.
Election fliers? Yeah, just run up, stick 'em in mailboxes, screen doors, whatever.
What about the vacants? - We ain't got to do them.
Some blocks ain't nothing but.
That's what I'm saying.
This be easy money.
Don't wanna do it? - I do it.
Me too.
This shit'd be easier if we had a car.
Dang, Donut.
I'm in enough trouble with Miss Anna as is.
So, what up, Mike? You in? All right, then.
I'll holler at you later, boy.
Look, Namond's been what's the word? Inconsistent.
Sometimes he do good, then other times, he just We talked about that.
He gonna do better.
Ain't you? Election day special, two for two! - I don't know.
I do.
You gonna give this boy his own package or there gonna be some drama.
You want me to talk to Wee-Bey? Maybe you wanna talk to him.
I give you his number.
He got a cell phone.
That's not necessary.
I got all the respect in the world for Bey.
Then show some for his family.
Make me proud, hear? Damn, boy.
Your mama's what niggers call a dragon lady.
She don't blink.
Yeah, gimme some insight, though.
To what? Why you is what you is.
Yo.
What up? Where y'all goin'? - Hungry, man.
I need to eat.
Come on.
Let's finish this.
Nah, yo.
This shit is boring.
Fuck it.
I ain't gonna pay y'all if you don't finish the job, so You already got the money? If the motherfucker paid you already, why the hell are we still here? Cos this is the job.
Shit, the man ain't got nobody to blame but hisself.
It's his fault for payin' up front.
Yo, you need to split that money up or something cos time is a-wastin'.
Can't even finish a day's work.
Get me something at least.
Lake trout.
Soda too? - Yeah.
Strawberry.
A'ight.
I got ya.
One, two.
Yes.
One, two.
Hey.
Where the crew at? Randy got 'em all some job handin' out election fliers or whatever.
You ain't wanna do that? Hell, no.
It's bullshit, man.
I got a job too.
Word? With Bodie.
I'm movin' the package.
You wanna go in on it with me? You sure? We could work together.
Nah, man, that's your thing.
Go do what you do.
Yeah, a'ight.
I'm gonna holler at you.
She a cute one, ain't she? Yeah, boy.
You know I love the women.
Hey, you seen Spider around any? He ain't been round the gym in like a month.
I leave messages, he don't call.
I don't understand.
He was one of my best welterweights.
Why would he just quit like that? Why don't you ask his moms? Well, shit.
I was locked up a good while, right.
I mean, I ain't no angel.
No.
You ain't that.
Thanks a lot, folks.
Good job.
Keep it up.
We're almost home.
You're the best.
The best.
Heavy turnout all around.
Big lines on the West Side might be bad for us.
I dunno We're out here in West Baltimore, the heart of his political base.
This is today? - This is live, right now in Lafayette Square.
Clay Davis just said his whole organization was out going door-to-door for Royce's ticket.
So much for laying back on the mayor.
We paid $20,000 for this shit? He probably went to Royce and shook him down for another 30.
Motherfucker.
Clay Davis must know something we don't.
He knows just enough to get paid twice.
Gotta blame ourselves for payin' him up front.
Hey, it was worth a shot.
Aides to the mayor told me they are concerned Thanks, yo.
I'm-a get me a cold one.
Grab the wall.
Officer Walker.
I ain't gonna be out here strapped.
You gonna take that on a humble? You don't know there's rules to this game.
Rules? - Yeah.
Where your shotgun at, Mr.
Omar? Y'all ain't got no charges here.
Charge is murder, motherfucker.
Murder? Who I kill? Hey, Omar.
McNulty.
What the hell goin' on here? - You tell me.
We got a warrant for a robbery murder.
In a store.
Wagon's here.
Hey, yo, McNulty, I need a phone.
Fuck your phone.
If I'm going to Booking, I need to make a call tonight, yo.
And let it ring.
Here.
Hey.
Yo, Butchie.
I'm locked up, yo.
What you need? - No bail.
They sayin' it's murder.
Murder? Well, don't worry.
I got ya.
You some kinda Democrat? Voter turnout was heavy across the city with some precincts reporting lines as soon as the polls opened at 7:00 this morning.
Election officials, however, reported few problems throughout the day.
Now the polls have closed, officials at the Board of Elections downtown have begun the tedious process of tallying the vote, prepared for what could be a long night.
With just over half of the city's Councilman Thomas J.
Carcetti has a narrow lead of 2%.
Traditionally, those precincts that report latest tend to be from West Baltimore, which is expected to favor Mayor Royce in the late going.
How it go? - Good.
Nothin' to it.
I'm countin' on you, Na'.
Exit polls done earlier in the day in key precincts show voters divided over the challenges facing this city, such as crime and education.
Blake Leyh: Robots In The Hood .
.
be quite an election.
Since this race tightened in the last couple of weeks, I've been saying that this election would be won on the ground.
Whoever has the best field operations will take it.
It's all about the turnout, and this is something What about Bond? Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Yeah.
All right.
Talk to you in a few.
Bond's running really strong against Demper.
Looks like we might have a new State's Attorney.
What does that mean for you? - Demper's Royce's boy.
Dare to get your hopes up, Tommy.
You know what? Let's get outta here for a while, take a walk.
I'll get your ass.
Pretty.
A little ripe.
Well, can't do anything about the way the harbor smells.
People are gonna expect you to.
I guess.
You sound confident.
I have a feeling.
Could be a great city again.
Pull some jobs in here.
People move back, fix up the houses.
It's ringing again.
Terri.
You should answer it.
I don't need an update every five minutes.
We should go anyway.
Do we have to? I'm sure they're frantic.
They don't know where you are.
Yeah? Taking a walk with my wife.
On our way.
Royce is conceding.
The West Side precincts came in and we pulled two outta five votes in some precincts.
We stole his base.
We won.
Are we happy about that? I think so.
I think we are.
Yeah.
You sure? Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Please.
I want to thank you all for your hard work and dedication.
Give yourselves a hand.
Come on.
I just got off the phone with Mayor Royce and Councilman Gray.
They were gracious.
I asked for their help.
I mean, we still have a general election to win.
Is there a Republican candidate for mayor in Baltimore? I'm not sure.
But assuming we win, we still have a lot of work to do to turn this city around, and we need everyone, everyone who's willing to join us in making a better Baltimore for our children.
I don't want to make a long speech, believe me, you don't want to hear it, so I'll thank each of you individually.
But for tonight, let's celebrate! Tommy! Tommy! Tommy! How you doin'? Thanks.
Hey.
Damond.
I look forward to working with you.
Congratulations to you, too.
Thank you.
I'm going home.
No, stay.
I won't be long.
Yeah, you will.
It's your night.
You know what Tommy.
Tommy.
Look what washed up on the beach.
Congratulations, Mr.
Mayor.
Just came by to wish you well.
Looking forward to working with you.
Shouldn't you be dead to me? - I took it easy on you, son.
I coulda had you for twice as much.
You got off cheap.
He's right.
Butchie sent us.
What you in for? I'm here on a 22-55.
I talked back.
Moolie? - Moolie.
He said that in front of you? - He made a point of it, in fact.
You said I oughta shore up my base.
You didn't call him on it? - The ironies of democracy.
A vote's a vote.
And I never throw one back.
Speaking of ballots, did you vote for me? The sanctity of the voting booth is a cornerstone of American democracy.
I gotta go.
You need a ride? - Yeah.
Come here.
You're the best.
Thanks, Norman.
Yeah, you take a break.
You got it.
One day.
Two days.
Come here, you.
Be good.
I'm gonna call you.
I have a feeling you might.
We are family I've got my Carcetti and me Good night.
Ooh.
I should go, too.
One for the road? Sure.
Scotch OK? Sure.
You know, I gotta admit, it feels good.
You deserve it.
You worked hard.
I did.
I do.
Cheers.
Cheers.
You know, when I took this job, you promised me a win bonus.
Well, you earned it.
I can't do this.
Not now.
Oh! Come on, Tommy.
You haven't changed.
Hell, from what Norman tells me, you nearly fell off the campaign trail for a blonde at the Stonewall dinner two months ago.
He had to drag you out of the bar.
It's not that I don't want to Oh, you're feeling a bit mayoral.
Right.
You're on stage now.
Well, Tommy four years is a long time for a fellow like you.
This could be your last chance for a while.
You sure? Maybe you have learned something.
Write me a check.

They got Honey Nut Cheerios in here? - Shit.
Yo, back the fuck up, motherfucker! My man here saved my spot, yo.
Shame we hadn't more time together.
We could have made us a couple of babies.
Ain't nobody see shit.
How's that for a message? - Not bad.
Except the price on your head ain't for four figures, it's for five.
For that kind of money, I should have done you my own self.
So who's doing the bounty? A West Side player by the name of Marlo.
Marlo? Can't say I know the man.
He know you.
Can you get me a phone call? I can do you one better than that.
Who you calling? - Police.
The police? Man owe me a favor.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Crime, violence, drugs, drug addiction, failing schools.
All of these social problems in Baltimore City over and over again.
And on June 8th, when I had to write a column for the next day, some statistics had just come out from the FBI showing an uptick in some of Baltimore's crime.
And we also had a spate of five killings in a two- or three-day period.
And, you know, the idea of sitting down again and writing another column on this subject, I don't know if it is important, yet here I am, a citizen of Baltimore, and I take my citizenship as seriously as I take my credentials as a columnist.
I said, "What am I gonna say? What can I say about this?" If the killings continue - between 250 and 300 homicides a year - Top of the world.
Top of the world.
I knocked off an incumbent mayor, Tony.
That ain't easy.
National party has to take notice.
Young and pretty as you are, I'm sure they've got ideas.
All you have to do now is run the city.
Tony, I've got to ask you something.
Why didn't you run again after the first term? I mean, nobody had the name you had, the organization.
Let me tell you a story, Tommy.
The first day I became mayor, they sit me down at the desk, big chair and dark wood, lots of beautiful things.
I'm thinking, "How much better can it get?" There's a knock at the door in the corner of the room, and Pete comes walking in carrying this gorgeous Svres silver bowl, hand chased.
It was this big.
"It's from the unions," he says.
So I think it's a present, something to commemorate my first day as mayor.
And he walks over, puts it on a desk.
I look down at it.
It's disgusting.
I said, "What the hell is this?" He said, "What the hell's it look like?" I said, "It looks like shit.
"What do you want me to do with it?" He says, "Eat it.
" "Eat it?" He says, "Yeah.
You're the mayor.
You've got to eat it.
" So, OK, it was my first day, and Pete knows more than I do.
So I go at it.
And just when I finish, there's a knock on the door.
And in walks Pete carrying another silver bowl, and this one's from the blacks.
"This too?" And he nods.
I start eating.
And when I'm finished, there's another knock and another bowl.
This one's from the Polacks.
Then after that, one from the ministers.
And you know what, Tommy? That's what it is.
You're sitting, eating shit all day long, day after day, year after year.
When I realized that, I decided being a downtown lawyer and seeing my family every night made for a fine life.
Just a fine life.
Got that dark horse right here, man.
Dark horse.
Dark horse.
Man, everyone knows his nigger ain't about to cop, is he? Spider, Spider, hold on now.
Come on, man.
Why you ain't come past my gym no more? I been waiting on you for weeks now.
Talk to me, son.
You ain't my fuckin' father.
What happened between me and your mom ain't got shit to do with you taking advantage of the gym.
Now, man, I'm just saying you one of my best, boy.
If I thought it was gonna hurt you - Fuck you! Ain't nobody gonna hurt me.
Fuck you.
So step up and step off, unc.
I got customers backing up.
Dark horse.
Dark horse.
Five, and five more.
Shit.
That's what that does.
Principal Withers, please, to the cafeteria.
Last card down.
Remember? - Oh yeah.
My bad.
Hey, guys.
You know I don't mind you coming up here most days to eat lunch, but I said you can't be gambling.
Yo, Mr.
Prezbo, the quarter's only a, you know, reminder to remind me that I got 25 shells.
That's all.
Come on, let's see what you got.
Dang.
Flush.
But it don't beat your three nines.
Yeah, it do.
It do? - It do.
It does.
You should have been more cautious with your bet.
Figure the odds.
It's our lunch break.
Don't be schooling us.
Hold on.
Let him talk.
Well, for starters, you have to get a count on the diamonds.
You know how many diamonds there are in a deck? Cards is all about knowing the numbers.
With the numbers, you can calculate the odds.
Now, Michael had four diamonds showing.
Hold on.
Wait.
What about dice? I mean, does dice have odds too? Cos mostly that's what we play.
Dice? Yeah.
Sure.
So, can you show us the odds of dice? - Yeah, man.
Yeah, man.
Teach us dice.
That'd be hard, man.
For real.
Here comes that Jailhouse Rick.
The Braddock case? I take it we now have permission to solve this fucking case, seeing as everyone's finished voting.
Solve away, you bold centurions.
You don't have work to do? Not till I catch a fresh call, no.
How much can you sell that one for? - Mint condition, 300.
Fuck me.
I need a hobby.
I tried, but he bucked on me.
I just thought he might have come back past once or twice.
Sherrod's on a truant list, Mr.
Cousins.
He hadn't been back since you last brought him in.
Well, if he does come back past, you tell him I'm looking for him at home, and he can come home if he want? I apologize for taking your time.
I see you up here undercover.
All right.
Don't worry, dawg.
I'll keep it close.
Mrs.
Donnelly? Does the school have any kind of collection of board games? Parcheesi, Trouble, Monopoly? You're still teaching math, right? Trying.
Yeah.
The book room downstairs.
Stay on the curriculum, Mr.
Pryzbylewski, or you'll have an area superintendent on our backs.
Remember this, yo? Not in my case.
Them boys working the case ain't really in the mood to listen.
As you can see, I still got the lady-lawyer marker, and if I recall, a police gun got fired a while back.
The only reason I'm here is because of that gun.
As far as Ilene Nathan goes, she promised a get-out-of-jail-free on a small felony or two.
This here is a taxpayer murder with an eyeball witness.
The eyeball witness is lying, yo.
Come on now.
When have you ever known me to put my gun on anybody that wasn't in the game? - Omar! - Old Face Andre is lying on me here.
The store ownernow why would he lie? Andre working a package out the store.
Folk like that, they tend to bear a certain resentment toward folk like me.
If you didn't do this one, you did others Shit, I got files on two open doubles last year.
Shotgun shells at both scenes.
What about that stash-house gunfight? Hm? What about Stringer Bell and his muscle dead in the warehouse? If this one ain't on you, another dozen probably are.
And if this one goes to court, you can tell that jury how wrong it is.
I'll be seeing God long before I swear to him on the stand.
You leave me at courtside and I'm done.
You know that.
Yeah? So you ain't making friends.
I got a bounty on my head, manfive figures.
If I would have known I'd be sharing quarters with all these boys, I probably wouldn't have robbed so many of them.
Aw yeah.
That golden rule.
Well, since you feeling all Biblical and righteous and all, you think on this.
If Omar ain't killed that delivery lady, somebody else did.
But you giving him a free walk right now, though, ain't you? A man got to have a code.
What's up? Just the dice.
Grab the dice from any game that has them.
We're using that third edition, right? - I don't know.
We're using the third.
What are the new fifth editions doing sitting down here in a box? No way.
Big red, y'all.
Big reds over here.
What's up, man? Got your big yellow.
What's up? Big yellow for you.
Look at you, all business and shit.
Big yellow bird.
Yo, who you bumping with? Ain't no bump.
They got their corner, I got mine.
Ain't no thing.
You going up the gym today? I might see you later.
Big yellow.
Big yellow birds over here.
Well, maybe they with Marlo.
Ain't with no one.
They're just young 'uns playing in this shit.
So what you want to do? Don't want to mix here and bring the police to our shop.
When they step off, you follow.
Bank 'em good.
What if they strut? Yellow, big yellow.
Ain't no need to pop no one, but they need a warning.
Make sure they know we for real.
Brokeback, man.
Brokeback right here.
Fresh from the street.
Brokeback.
Big yellow.
Big yellow bird.
Brokeback.
Tried to bring out who was on me.
Led him to the train station.
How that work? Had the railroad police on me.
Couldn't smoke.
Guy was pulling the strings.
You need a name.
You get that, I can run it down for y'all.
I'll get a name.
Camera still there? Steal that motherfucker.
No one speaks to it, then it's the feds sniffing you out.
It's only federals who'd be rich enough to lose a camera and not go to crying about it.
You steal that bitch and someone comes knocking, it's local.
Steal that bitch.
See what comes.
Hey, you know the boy used to be with me running these carts, go by the name of Sherrod? I'mI'm looking for him with some good news.
So if you spot him, you know, tell him to come see me.
That's, uh, that's $9 for two, ten for three.
That's ten too.
That's a good product.
Ain't none of that alley shit.
People walking in front of the camera waving hello.
Them Chinese made that shit.
Yeah.
You know? Hey, bro.
Much obliged.
It's a good deal, good deal.
Remember to holler at my boy if you see him.
A'ight.
All right, here we go! Bubbles' Depot for my people.
Bubbles take care of your troubles.
Ain't no trouble yet.
All right, all right.
Take it easy, OK? - I know you remember me.
All right, be cool with it.
Give it up, nigger.
That's what I'm gonna say to you every time we meet.
Money or pills, don't care which.
All right, all right.
Cool.
I'm getting it.
See? Smackdown, yo.
Ace in the hole.
Motherfucker bad for business, man.
Y'all don't take care of your neighborhood store? Officer! Officer.
How you doing, Officer? Can you help me out? I just got robbed.
Thank you, man.
They all saw it.
Everybody was here witnessing everything.
Took your money? - Yeah, man.
Same guy every day.
He went down the alley to Payson Street.
You can cut him off on Lafayette You can't sell on the street without a license.
And these movies It's copyright infringement.
Come on, man.
That's a hefty fine.
That's my ten Are you gonna rob me too? That's what you're gonna do? Rob me also? Baltimore's finest right here.
Thank you.
Everybody gather up, all right? Everybody take five and gather up.
Mike, get in here too.
I want everybody that uses the gym to hear this now.
Most of y'all know I came home after being in a long time.
And some of y'all Shit, all of y'all probably seen me welcoming the attentions of some of the ladies who've come past.
Easy.
Now, I realize that some of these ladies is your relations.
I ain't mean to disrespect y'all or have any feelings hurt.
All y'all come in here to learn a sport and better yourselves.
Ain't no need for me to get in the way of that.
All right.
If your witness is in the game, and Omar jacked him up good - What the fuck is this? - I'm just asking.
Is he kin to you or what? Vernon, you ran the sheet on that Old Face, right? Yeah.
He was an asshole.
So what? So what? What's the history? Do we come behind your casework talking this kind of shit? Do we? - Come on.
No.
Fuck you, Bunk.
Fuck you.
Fuck you.
Soon as he come out the gym, yo, bank his ass, man.
Make sure that nigger's shook.
He thought I wouldn't handle it.
Said he needed some more proof.
I don't know about all this beefin', man.
What, you scared, nigger? We need to pump your ass up some more.
Game on.
You coming round the way tomorrow? I think you should stay off that spot.
Bitch, I'm talking to you! Man, fuck you.
Fuck! Mouthing don't work for you, nigger.
Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! Y'all got to take this shit out of the front of my door.
Namond, go inside.
Man, fuck you! Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Hey, I feel you, man.
Ain't no beef here, though, all right? Go inside, man.
Yo, what happened to your boy? What the fuck happened to you? Ain't nothing.
You need to see how the other nigger look.
Who was that? - I can handle that fool.
You ain't have to step to.
Shit, no! You had everything under control.
Look at your face! Course, I recognize the other boy was high as all hell.
Anything can jump off when it's like that.
He'd have been on his ass if you ain't mixed in.
What's going on? He into something? Ain't none of my business.
Yours either.
Seriously, you guys ran a hell of a campaign, no let-up, a lot of heart.
I'll second that.
I liked the shit when you trotted out that witness story in the debate.
What about the fucking last-minute flyers and me and the slum lord doing a tango on the courthouse steps? Wait.
Parker, who was behind that? - I didn't see no Royce authority line.
Well? Tommy, enough of the bullshit.
What the hell are we waiting for? Bring your ass around here and try out the big chair.
Come on.
Come on around here.
I'm not even mayor-elect.
General election's still a few weeks away.
You don't beat Crawford in a city where we outnumber Republicans nine to one, you don't deserve the fucking job, now, get on around here.
If I lose the general election, I'll just blame Norman.
He's taking over from Terri D'Agostino.
She did good for you.
She did.
The national noticed.
She's back at DCCC looking to target red-state delegations.
After what she pulled off, I hope she got a bonus.
Hell, yeah.
They gave her my share too.
Wouldn't you know it? Tommy, whatever you need going forward for the general election, for the transition I want to hit the ground running, so I need to learn the agencies, the budgets, the problemsall of it.
Wherever you want to go, whatever you want to look at.
See to it.
It's a hell of a goddamn job.
Halfway glad to get out.
I'm gonna miss it.
Braddock case running you in circles? Whole day was a waste of time.
Why not talk to Wardell himself? Ask him if he killed the witness against him.
If he read the newspapers, he already knows he's a suspect.
Will he take a polygraph? Tell his lawyer they're about to shift the narcotics case to the federal court because a state witness was murdered.
Tell him if his client doesn't cooperate, he's looking at mandatory minimums and no parole.
The feds don't want drug cases anymore, especially not one that's gonna fall apart without a key witness.
Bluff.
What have you got to lose? Maybe he blows the box.
Maybe he passes.
But he talks a bit either way, and you, Detective, get to listen.
The fuck am I looking at here? BirdsI think.
You see that there? I think that's a wing flapping.
Shit.
Fuck! Fuck it anyway, man! - Mr.
Bond? - Hey.
Call me Rupert.
Thanks for coming over.
Try to get a running start, meeting my unit chiefs.
No problem.
Congratulations on the election result.
You'll be coming in with quite a mandate.
Maybe so.
So, how can I help you with the transition? There's not a lot of high-end narcotics cases in the pipeline, - and major crimes - Wasn't carded for political reasons.
Once the polls put me up there with Demper, people started whispering in my ear.
And I also heard about your subpoenas Andy Krawczyk, Clay Davis.
Sir, I didn't intend To go after Royce's money men four weeks before a primary election? Yeah.
I think you're wasted in Narcotics.
Let me guess - How about VCU as unit chief? - What? - Violent Crimes Unit.
How about you take that over for me? Carcetti ran on a platform of dropping the murder rate, so VCU is where the sparks are gonna fly, right? You're putting me in charge of all homicide prosecutions? - What about Ilene Nathan? - She's moving up to second deputy.
I came in here ready to get bounced down to misdemeanours or worse.
Why would you think that? The subpoenas and the fact that Demper Demper lost the election.
I won.
And I admire your courage, if not your loyalty.
Lester.
Excuse me? Forgive me.
VCU is great.
I'm more than ready to work murders for you, Mr.
Bond.
Good.
Rupert.
But now she's told police sex was consensual on Paul and Monnel only.
So - So, Randy - He'll be back tomorrow.
And the thing with the police? - It's out of my hands.
Turn it down, ladies.
Quanice, lose the gum.
OK.
Settle down.
Mr.
Prezbo! What's Dukie doing with a computer? We're gonna have a computer in the class for special projects.
And another thing - They all new and shit.
Leave the old ones on your desks, and put your names in the box on the inside cover of the new ones.
OK.
Did anyone have any trouble with the homework? - Charlene? - I didn't get it.
Didn't get what? - None of it.
Michael? That's great.
Good job.
Is this your work? Cos it looks like someone else's.
No, I did my work.
OK.
Next time, try to remember not to copy Quanice's name at the top.
Did everybody get a new textbook? Yes.
Great.
OK.
Well, for now at least, you can get those out of sight.
Namond, why aren't you in uniform? Why did you decide not to wear it? I ain't in my right class, so ain't no need for a uniform.
Interesting.
Why you always write down everything we say? Trying to get inside our heads or something? You trying to get into mine? Chandra, do you think this is a beauty salon or a classroom? Darnell, why didn't you wear your uniform? I meant to.
I did.
Yeah, but after a quart of vodka, it'd be hard to know what color shirt to wear.
And you find that funny, Namond? Man, fuck you.
Darnell has a drinking problem and Namond suffers from conduct-disorder issues.
Fuck you.
Yeah, he's got a mouth on him.
Is it necessary to comb your hair in class? Fuck you, cheese-faced bitch! - I should tell you - You ain't tellin' nobody nothing! I was wondering why she was in the class.
Chandra - Oppositional defiant personality.
Get the fuck out of my face, bitch! - I'm sorry you're having a bad day, but you're gonna take a walk with Miss Mason.
Come back when you've pulled it all back together again.
Damn.
It's bye-bye time for my girl Chandra.
Yeah, you think? Then to reiterate, this is a polygraph examination, non-admissible.
The answers to all questions are regarded as a proffer - with a limited grant of immunity.
Agreed.
OK.
To begin, please answer yes to a series of questions regardless of whether or not that answer is correct.
Is your name Anthony Wardell? - Yeah.
And you're from Baltimore? Right now I'm at City Jail, but I'm from East Side.
So your answer is? - Yeah, I'm from Baltimore.
Are you female? Fuck is wrong with My bad.
Yeah, I'm a bitch.
Hey, sweet thing.
Chandra.
We're working on our short essay.
If you Diamonds are a girl's best friend.
Need to get down to lay down.
Namond, if you don't stop, I'll have to ask you to leave class.
See you sad-ass motherfuckers in three days.
You're leaving class, not school.
What? What about now, bitch? Huh? - That's not necessary, Namond.
You gonna suspend me? We're gonna have a little talk.
Man, fuck y'all.
I know the rules.
You got to suspend me.
School got to have rules.
He's right.
Can't just be throwing that shit out.
The point is, I can call it like you want.
You want him to pass? He passed.
You want him to come up inconclusive, he's inconclusive.
What the fuck kind of science is that? Come on.
Did he blow the box or not? I'm here for you, Detective.
You know what we use the polygraph for? Leverage.
To get him in here and fuck with him.
No wonder this shit's inadmissible.
Let me guess.
Swatowski is telling them that he can make it go any way they want.
If you think that's how we play it, why let your client Because you know there's not much case left now that your witness is dead.
I don't need to expose him to a federal charge if I can avoid it.
And because even if Swatowski bends it for our ears, he's let you know that Mr.
Wardell here did not blow the box.
Yo, I wouldn't kill me.
Even if it flips on me, I ain't gonna do shit to the man.
Why not? My moms and histhey're, like, cousins.
Came up together in the Latrobe, you know? I've been knowing him since, like, Head Start and shit.
But he was gonna testify.
What am I looking at on a first conviction on this kind of waive? Seven, eight? Shit, I'll be out in three and a half.
You think I'm gonna kill my mom's cousin's boy for three and a half? I know that man helped get himself elected claiming that I did me like that, but please.
Bum-ass motherfucker was gonna testify against me, and I swear to God I feel bad he's dead.
I do.
Hey, Ilene, I've been looking all over for you.
Omar Little.
From Bird's trial a couple of years ago.
The stick-up boy.
He's in City Jail on felony murder.
Store robbery, West Side.
When I gave him the card, I told him it was for a light felony at best.
Yeah, of course, but he needs to get writ out of BCDC and put in protective custody somewhere else.
He's sharing his address with about 800 others who have seen the business end of his gun.
Why do you care? - I'm pretty sure he's being set up.
How does that play with the rest of the guys in the squad room? All I'm asking is that you move him to some county detention center at least until I have a chance to work back up on this thing.
Now, this card ought to buy him that much.
Is Hartford County Detention Center quiet enough? - Yeah.
Go pick up a writ in my office and tell Mr.
Little my debt's paid.
The fact is that homicides are off 14% in the Western this year.
But I'm not gonna stand here and take credit for that when all other UCR felonies are up.
Why not, Major? - A wise man once told me years ago when I wasn't even a sergeant that you should never take credit when the crime rate drops unless you want to take the blame when it rises.
Ten-hut.
Mayor-Elect is on deck.
Please, back to what you're doing.
I'm just here to observe.
At ease, gentlemen.
Major Daniels, continue your presentation.
In any event, rather than allow my post cars to patrol at random, I put two-man cars in the posts with the worst drug corners, Edmonson Avenue, Poplar Grove, Fayette and Baltimore Streets, North Avenue.
Now, if nothing else, a two-man car is more aggressive, and that helps push it away from the most volatile corners, - which may be having an effect.
Just pushing it? I'm not devoting my resources to cheap street arrests.
Instead, I'm trying to bring every officer I can to bear on making quality felony cases.
I could do more but it's my opinion that not enough of the troops I have are sufficiently trained to properly investigate such cases.
Major, you just insulted your command.
Respectfully, sir, too many of my people have spent years chasing street-level arrests where they grab bodies and make stats.
But that doesn't teach you how to write a proper warrant or testify properly as to probable cause, or use and not get used by an informant.
I wish it were otherwise.
But if I'm chasing felony cases, I can only bring a minority of my officers to bear.
You've got all of it already! Make a nigger work.
You like that shit.
Ain't that right, motherfucker? You can't hide, son.
Don't care where it is.
In a nigger's ass crack, I'll still find you.
Damn.
Fucked that man up.
Yeah, boy.
All right.
So we starting later than I wanted.
You said you was gonna creep out of school after lunch.
I tried.
They won't put me out.
Shit.
Ain't no school gonna hold me if I want to go.
It's this new class they put me in.
It's all fucked up, yo, they working all backwards and shit.
All right, let's get to this.
Yo, Bobby, you working the stash.
Why aren't where we was yesterday? - The spot was right.
This is good here? The fuck is wrong with you? He was on this strip yesterday.
This ain't shit.
If you don't want to sell my shit, fuck you, Kenard.
I keep my money.
This spot is just as good as the other.
Shit Carv, do you know how much that video camera cost? which makes our adventure with Fuzzy Dunlop look like a fucking walk in the park.
To get the camera from ISD, you had to get authorization from your supervisor.
A member of the MART squad to the front desk.
You lost it doing police work.
Your lieutenant will understand.
Marimow? You know what that asshole understands? Burning motherfuckers for petty shit like this.
Help me, Carv.
This is not my problem.
Don't fuck me, Carv.
Don't fuck me now.
You know what this is? This is one of those enabling relationships.
Enable me, Carv.
Enable me to find my fuckin' camera.
You're seeing pigeons? - Last night we did.
Me and Sydnor ran the West Side looking at every pigeon coop we could find.
This morning, nothing in the monitor.
Did you check the pawnshops? - Every one.
I know this asshole Marlo has my camera.
Ah, fuck me.
What? You just reminded me.
I had to brief this kid last week who knew something about a murder that Marlo's people did.
I meant to call Bunk.
Bunk caught the case? No.
Actually, he had a warrant for the guy who supposedly got killed.
I rode around with him on it a while back.
What about me? I got problems here, man.
The only thing you can do is get some wood on Marlo Stanfield or his people.
Scare him enough to send the camera back.
What do you have on Marlo? I know he's a drug dealer.
I can't prove it or nothing, but I know.
Detective Pitts, pick up 2594.
Pitts OK, listen.
How about I let you debrief the kid first? - See what he gives you.
This gets the camera home? Maybe not, but maybe the kid gives you some shit on Marlo.
Maybe even gives you a murder.
Before you call Homicide, you walk it back to Marimow like the cat with the mouse in its teeth.
You bring him the murder, he forgives the camera.
Lumen, line 5.
Lumen, pick up the fucking phone.
Looking for Detective Moreland.
Could you have him call Sergeant Carver at the Western, please? Carver? Western? Hm.
Got it.
Hm.
Jeez.
Fuck the Bunk.
Thoughts on your cabinet? - Lots of them.
But top of the list, Ervin Burrell's ass is gone.
I told Royce to dump him more than a year ago, but Clarence didn't want to piss off the ministers until after the primary.
Primary's over.
He can do it now.
You think Royce is gonna do you that favor? He's thinking about taking a poke at Elijah and running for the Seventh District congressional seat.
He's gonna need every black minister in town to lay hands upon him.
Fine.
I'll do it myself.
You won't.
Royce can fire a black police commissioner, but the newly elected white mayor cannot.
Brothers who voted for you'll be at your throat.
What if I got a black commissioner to replace the son of a bitch? Under Burrell, the only black deputy is Cawthorne, and he's 70.
After that, it's just majors and lieutenants.
We go outside, nationwide search.
Deputy chiefs in New York or LA make more than their police commissioner.
If you're talented and black, why would you be in Baltimore? I have often asked myself that very question on a number of occasions.
So I'm stuck with Burrell.
Fuck.
Have a seat.
Don't keep him late.
He's got school in the morning.
I thought he was suspended.
They're letting me back in.
Miss Anna'd want me to be home by nine.
Send him on to Bunk after you're done.
Look after him.
He's a good kid.
You hungry? - Yeah.
Let's eat.
Hey, kid, let me ask you right off the bat, you know what a police surveillance camera looks like? You sure you don't want to ride with Lieutenant Grace? She'll be in command of the ship.
What's the point of a ride with the bosses? I need to see what the troops see.
I love the idea of a mayor who knows what we're up against.
Officers McFarlane and Ginter, the mayor-elect will be riding with you in sector three.
How you doing? - Hey.
Don't let him get captured.
I didn't know nothing about it in the beginning.
Little Kevin just told me to tell Lex to go up to the playground behind Fulton cos his girl was up there.
And Lex got killed? - Yeah.
Where'd he get killed? So you weren't there to see him killed? I told you.
Little Kevin told me to tell Lex to go up to the playground and see this girl Patrice.
Later, Kevin come up to me and tell me Chris and Snoop killed the dude.
What's Kevin's last name? - I don't know.
You don't have his name? - Little Kevin is all I know.
So you told the guy to go somewhere, and then you heard he was killed, but you don't know where and you don't even know if anyone found the body? - How do you know Lex is dead? - Everybody know it.
Who is everybody? - Everybody from around the way.
People be saying that Chris and Snoop be turning niggers into zombies for Marlo, but I know that ain't true.
When you dead you dead, is all.
Zombies, huh? You know what this is? This is bullshit.
You're bullshitting me.
No, sir.
You were right there when this Lex fellow got dropped.
No.
You were.
You're an eyeball witness who can get me Snoop and Chris both.
I told you - Look, kid, if you were there, you can say so.
We can do a lot for you, maybe help you out with this problem at school.
I ain't got a problem no more.
I'm good.
You were there, right? - Herc.
Just say you were there! How do you like being mayor? I've still got to win the general election and the inauguration's not till December, so what do I know? Well, you can't do any worse than Royce.
City's going to shit.
Yeah.
Well, what do you guys suggest I do first? An air strike.
Drop white phosphorus on everything between here and North Avenue.
Seriously.
That shit works.
My brother's a marine.
They use WP over there in Fallujah.
Signal 13, shots fired.
Bang.
There it is.
Now you're gonna see some shit, Mr.
Mayor.
Pardon my French.
You know what's fucked up? No one hears the gunshot.
On the canvass, no one even claims to hear the shot.
So look, our next move is to work back on Wardell's visiting list.
If the sergeant asks, I'm on the street.
The fuck is that 13 on Calhoun Street? I don't know, but they 10-32'd it ten minutes ago, sir.
You're not dropping me off at my crib, are you? You can leave me a block or two up from here.
I could walk the rest of the way.
Don't want to be seen with the police? Yeah.
All right, boss.
I'll pull over right here.
What the fuck was Carv thinking? This kid can't give me a murder.
We go right at Marlo.
Fuck the back door when we can go in the front, you know? I want a detective at University in case the guy that comes out makes a declaration.
Have someone in the room with him.
Officer Leach is being transported to you.
Service weapon's with Detective Hollister, on their way to ballistics.
No.
No, looks like a clean shoot.
I've got spent shells from two suspect weapons, different calibers, both recovered.
No, I'm not out here at the scene.
But call the PIO and have him issue a statement from downtown.
Tell the SAO that if they want to survey the scene, they need to move now.
Crime Lab is finishing up and the OCME van is here waiting.
Yeah - Isn't that the Western District commander? - Yeah, Daniels.
He's the duty officer tonight.
Seems to know his business.
He ain't as bad as some.
Police.
Baltimore Police.
OK.
There's still 85 eligible from September who need an October day.
That'll work, ma'am.
I'm counting on you fellows to get it done before the end of the month.
I can keep you on salary till then.
You know what? This ain't for me.
I thank you for the opportunity, but it ain't so much to just bring a man for a day or two.
I mean, if you had something where I was working with these kids Anyway, thanks again.
Hey, there.
Hey.
Thought you was at Ida Wells.
Language arts position opened up here.
I came over last year.
Hey.
What's up, Coach? - Hey.
You come over for your boys? Some kind of program? Nah.
Something else.
Didn't work out really.
Be well.
You mind if I give him a go? - Sure.
Fuck you.
OK.
But you're still in this room.
Fuck you.
You're not going back till you learn to behave.
Fuck you.
Until you show you can handle it, you're not going back to your regular class.
Fuck you.
And you damn sure ain't going home cos there ain't no more getting suspended.
Mr.
Colvin, sir? Fuckyou.
Cos I ain't feel like it.
That's why.
This is bullshit.
I ain't reading no motherfucking book either! I don't even know nothing about it.
And you always getting on my ass and shit about some book.
Fuck you, you cheese-faced bitch! Albert, Albert, settle down now.
This gonna be harder than we thought.
It's fascinating, isn't it? - Class - This ain't no different than the other class Clinically speaking.
Yo, your points are full.
I'm hot.
Come and get it.
All right.
I'll cover that.
Me too.
I'm betting with my boy Randy.
You about to get your money taken.
Come on.
Get up.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Pay up, sucker.
Randy, what are you doing? Didn't we go over this? - How many ways can you make a four? - Not enough for his black ass.
Look who's talking.
He just come today, so he missed the whole thing about the odds.
Right.
Randy, there's only three ways to make a four, - but to make a seven - Six.
That's good.
So what should have been your play? Should have bet against the roll.
Good to have you back, Mr.
Wagstaff.
Come on, roll 'em, man.
I got 40.
I got 40 on it.
Trick them into thinking they aren't learning, and they do.
Been looking all over for you.
You found me.
Look, I been thinking, Sherrod We're going about our thing all wrong.
You know, I made the mistake.
I was thinking I knew you better than you knew yourself.
This corner mess will bring you down fast.
You know.
I think you need to come home, right? You come by tonight, and we work this shit out.
Why don't you just step right now? I don't get paid till eight.
Eight, huh? You all right? Just a little tired, that's all.
So I'm gonna see you tonight, right? You want to help me take his statement? Braddock case is down.
Room two.
You veteran crimefighters got a name for this, right? "Murder weapon" or some shit like that? - No fucking way.
Slug from autopsy matches two more I pulled from that smoke hound's back yard, block into the alley from where Braddock fell.
Our guy's dead from a stray? He was shooting at 40s and Clorox bottles blocks away, using potatoes for a silencer.
Bite me.
That's ridiculous.
So our guy's dead because a bullet misses a bleach bottle.
And this fuck Carcetti gets to be the mayor behind this stupidity.
I fucking love this town.
I do.
Nice pull, Greggs.
Soft eyes.
Sherrod!
So, Rashad has 82 apples and 12 friends all of whom are hungry.
And, uh, so he looks carefully at his apples and sees that seven have worms.
Another 15 have gone rotten.
But he wants to be fair and distribute all the good apples equally.
"Distribute"? - Give out.
Well, just say that, yo? - OK.
OK, so how many apples does each of Rashad's friends get: A - four, B - five.
C - six or D - seven? Take your time but do it fast.
Nigger said, "I got my rights," so my boy said, "Oh, yeah? Well, here's a left to go with your right.
" He was like, pow! - Calvin, you done already? - Uh-huh.
Yeah? - B - 5.
How did you work that out so fast? Easy.
"B - 5" got the dinks.
The what? - If you want, I could show you.
Don't show him, show me.
OK.
You did this with the earlier math class, right? So, you, like, got 82 apples and then how many blah, blah, blah then you went, like, dinking all round this one and no other one.
So the answer is "B - 5.
" Everybody get that? - Yeah.
"B - 5," it got all the dinks.
"B - 5," and I'm an Audi 5000.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole The priority should be keeping the H files up to date with all notes transcribed, the standard office report.
Uh On our day shift today, you may encounter Councilman and Democratic mayoral nominee Thomas Carcetti, who's been fact-finding within the department.
So, if you go leaving your facts laying around and he finds them, that shit's on you.
Uh, lastly, as most of you are already aware, our CID Commander Raymond Foerster, after a long bout with cancer, passed away last night at Johns Hopkins.
Better, uh, eulogies are coming.
So, let me just say that the man served 39 years attaining the rank of colonel without leaving a trail of bitterness or betrayal.
In this department, that's not a career, it's a miracle.
Uh, there'll be a detective's wake this evening followed by viewings on Wednesday and a burial Mass on Friday.
The family suggests donations to the colonel's favorite charities.
Addresses will be posted in the coffee room.
All told.
And, Bunk, I just got your overtime for the week.
Get in to my office and pull your pants down.
No, no, no! Fuck that.
You finish a pot, you make the next one.
OK.
I don't see the right one in here anywhere.
Sergeant Hauk.
Yes, sir.
I just got off with Beauford at IAD.
He says a harassment complaint's been filed.
A Jamaican woman says you had her searched by Amtrak police? Yeah.
Well, you see, in my report, we had what we thought was reliable info that she was a drug courier for Marlo Stanfield.
I mean, we actually scoped Stanfield with her.
What was the info? The CI's been reliable.
Great track record with us.
Long history.
CI 238.
Give me his name.
His name? Sir.
Sir! Sir, I've never been comfortable with, you know, tossing around names of informants in squad rooms.
I feel that it's - Name.
Fuzzy Dunlop, sir.
I might have to meet this character.
He's kind of leery of meets.
He's been reliable, I promise you.
This one baffled the shit out of me, too.
But he's never been off, never.
You jumped out on bad information, Sergeant.
You brought in another agency and brought discredit to this unit - my unit.
In good faith though, sir.
If anything comes of this, I have your report, and I will bury you with it.
And in case you haven't been paying attention to the election results, your rabbi has left the building.
No tantrums today? - What's the point? - They're not gonna suspend us, right? - Right.
What's the point? So, we're here, like it or not.
If it makes you feel better, you're here because you beat the system.
You had no interest in class, and you made it impossible for everybody else, and now you're out.
You won.
Yeah! - You feel like winners? - Always.
That's how we did.
Who's we? - Us.
No, who are you? - Players.
Kingpins? Nah, that comes later.
Right now, we just corner boys.
So how long until you're kingpins? - I'm thinking two, three years.
Two, three years.
Let me ask, and I want everybody to write this down, where do you see yourself in ten years? Come on, pencil and paper.
This isn't schoolwork, this is about y'all.
She's young but she's good.
Yeah.
Doctoral candidate, psych department of College Park.
Thesis work is on social alienation and analysis.
All right, how many wrote "NBA"? - Yeah, but only for the Lakers.
I want to be a pediatric neurosurgeon like that one nigger, what's his name? - Ben Carson.
Yeah, that dude.
A black surgeon at Hopkins.
You need to go to medical school.
Whatever.
How many wrote "dead"? - Shit, you saw that coming, huh? Shame y'all have so little time and you're wasting it here.
You know where you're going.
We can't teach you anything about that? - That's what we've been saying.
Namond, put away the magazine.
I ain't reading no magazine.
Namond.
What? It ain't even mine.
It was laying here when I came in.
Y'all little pissers.
You know, we're giving them a fine education.
"It ain't even mine.
It was just laying here when I came in.
" You know this right here, the whole damn school, the way they carry themselves, it's training for the street.
The building's the system, we the cops.
Yeah, you are for sure.
I mean, y'all come here every day and practice getting over, try running all different kinda games.
It's practice for the corner, right? Ain't no real cops.
Ain't no real danger.
But y'all are getting something out of this.
Bet you didn't even know that.
I'd still rather be out there.
Can I, uh? Corner boys, huh? Let me ask y'all something.
You help us home in on this, and maybe we do a little better job.
What makes a good corner boy? - Eyes open.
Keep the count straight.
Don't trust nobody.
Uh-huh.
If you don't got no respect, you ain't got nothing.
If you stupid, you get killed.
That's the only way.
This name in black right here got stink on it.
Eyeball witness, Bunk.
Go back to the scene with me, - take a fresh look.
You're out of line, here, Bunk.
You are.
A lot of names.
Too many.
No, we're good with it.
Listen, you back-seat-driving motherfucker, the guy picked him out - Omar-fucking-Little.
Why? Who the fuck cares? We got a dead female taxpayer, - and somebody's saying him.
I don't buy it.
And this ain't the motherfucker that came up with 62 ways for the peanut.
His name pops up on five or six cases I know of, including two of yours, and you want him back on the street? But this ain't him.
So someone else is walking on you all.
Bunk, the next body you catch, I'm going to be crawling all over it, second-guessing your ass every step, pulling on every last motherfucking thread.
Yeah.
We gonna see how you like it.
Hey, Vern.
Hey, Vern, Vern, Vern, Vern.
Just go back on it with me.
What? Shit doesn't play out any differently, I'll give you a back rub you'll never forget.
You guys don't need to do anything you wouldn't normally do just cos I'm here.
I wouldn't know what we normally do around here.
I'm new and inexperienced.
Oh, you're, uh Yeah.
I am.
I'm just trying to get a feel for your response to the violence.
I'm not the hall monitor or anything.
So, this is your day? - We catch a body, it's different.
You got my camera? - I what? - Licence and registration.
You do me one, I'll do you.
You got a card or something? City, huh? Video camera gotta come back.
Yeah, well, I see what I can find out about it.
But you know cameras - kind of like pigeons in a storm.
Know what I'm saying? Sometimes they come back.
Sometimes But I keep an ear out on it.
Pigeons? Did he just say pigeons? He's fucking with you.
Tell Marimow you used the camera for the PC at the train station.
Then admit the camera got took.
I already put it down to the CI.
I tell dickhead the truth, - he takes my stripes on it.
Come on.
I'm just saying you weren't suspended that long.
Is it because Tiff dropped it, or you had to do something for Miss Donnelly? - Do something? - I don't know.
Like, promise or something.
No, Tiff dropped it.
Ain't nothing past that.
That's good.
You know, the thing with the teachers and cops, they always come at you like they got you by the ass.
But keep your mouth shut, ain't nothing they could do.
So, more times than not, they go away.
Word on that.
It don't even matter.
Miss Anna she got me on this short leash now.
Can't go out the house unless she know right where I'm going.
Shit, at least you've got a leash.
We turned and shook As we had a look In the room where the dead men lay So big Jim Dwyer made his last What the fuck is that? Club sodaand lime.
You mincing bitch.
Why not just suck a dick and get it over with? - That'll get the bad taste out of your mouth.
Ah.
Yeah.
I'm a freeborn man of the USA I'm a freeborn man of the USA I'm a freeborn man of the USA Almost new.
Don't want no dead man's hat.
I'm just fuckin' with you.
Here, let's pray.
Here we lay a couple of New York boys who came too far south for their own fuckin' good.
Fucking Yankee proud of it now, you fuckin' bitches.
Let's get the fuck out of here.
You hungry? You want some Chinese? - She didn't - No talking.
Keep your eyes on your paper.
Yo, Mr.
Prezbo, this say "cars.
" - So? - The stuff we practised was about food.
It's OK.
It's just a different object.
Pay attention to the number.
Numbers are messed up, too.
We never did one-thirds.
It's the same operation.
One-fourth, one-fifth, one-third.
It's the same steps, different denominator.
How do you get one-third of a car? - It's one-third of all the cars.
Was I talking to you? You get close enough you could take a headshot.
Why? Cos maybe he vested up.
Word.
A chest shot maybe won't do it for you.
Then what? You.
It's his turn.
Thug, you on it.
You shoot from a distance, you can't risk a headshot.
You go for the belly, the dick or the ass area.
Because the vest don't go down that far.
Bam.
Take 'em out.
Then what? - Walk up, - finish 'em off.
With a? Headshot.
Damn, y'all coming along full effect.
I hear it.
I hear that.
All right, now say he in a car.
Sergeant Thomas Hauk, Baltimore City Police.
Didn't I say City would come running? - Did.
I'll check this joker out for you.
See what's what.
One other thing, you're doing OK running them New York niggers of the East Side, I know that.
But this thing you got with disappearing the bodies My man is saying if you just vanishing the bodies like that, it do kind of defeats its own purpose.
Niggers don't know if they went back to the Bronx or whatever.
You feel me? - Course.
I'll tell my people.
No disrespect to your professionalism or nothing.
We all impressed how you lose the motherfuckers like that.
We just trying to send a message to these New York people in full effect.
You know what I'm saying? - I'll get back to you on this.
So, Councilman, I understand you were at CID yesterday.
See anything big downtown? They messed up the lunch order.
No, I figured I needed to get closer to the street.
Rolling with the mighty.
Remember, we had a shooting last week so keep those corner fucks to one window.
Shit, if only we had a van full of you guys.
Dressed like that, Stevie Wonder make you as police.
Radios out of sight.
Volume up on those boom boxes.
Ten bucks say we collar up first.
20.
Mr.
Mayor, in the Eastern we are hungry motherfuckers - respectfully, I mean.
So, you're saying, you don't ever give anybody a break? Anybody? Nah, nah.
Cos if you let him slide for a dollar, it's a sign that you're weak.
Today's dollar is tomorrow's two.
Same with your crew.
Your boy come up short saying spillage or police, you let him be, and then he gettin' over on you, then you a chump.
So, you got to fuck him up! You gottamess him up.
Nah.
Nah.
Something for real happen, you do that.
Do it over some bullshit, all you did was lose a good worker.
I don't know - You gotta fuck that nigger up, man.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Whoa.
Stop talking on top of each other.
This how you communicate out on the street? All right, it's like this - your boy come back to you, - say this happened - Then you fuck him up.
I'm gonna let him make it out of his own cut, too.
If he a good worker, he know what to do.
Yeah, he got a point.
He got a point.
That's a good one.
If he thinks about it, says it ain't his fault, then that nigger runnin' game on you.
And then you fuck that nigger up.
Yeah.
All right, yeah.
But why? - You know it gotta happen, man.
You know what I'm saying! - Wait, wait, wait! One voice.
One voice, y'all.
One voice.
D, you tell him.
There always people watching.
Watching you.
True.
Yeah.
What's taking you so long? There he is now.
Hurry up, this guy.
This guy right here.
Fuck you, guys.
Yo, man, we need some pills.
You in the right place.
Get them for us.
Man, I'm going to work.
Yo, 20 for the pills and ten for you.
Leave the bike.
What, you want steal my bike? What the fuck I want your bike for? I got a car.
Give me a minute.
$20 might mean nothing to you but I ain't making that much money.
It's hard money.
Y'all some lazy motherfuckers.
It's round the corner.
We appreciate this.
I love it when they come to work pumped like this.
Shit! Come on, man.
I'm going to work.
I'm going to work, man! It's bullshit! This is some bullshit right here.
For real! For real! I ain't got no drugs, no shit on me.
I ain't got nothing on me, man.
You taking my bike, too? I need that.
This is bullshit! - One down.
.
.
comin' here, fuckin' with us.
This is fucked up right here, man.
Andre, how you doing? - This is a friend of mine, Detective Moreland.
Hey.
You doing OK there or what? Listen, for my friend, tell me one more time how the thing went down.
The boy came in.
Omar? - Omar.
Omar.
He puts the nine on her.
Says to me, "Whatever you got.
" Mm-hm.
A nine, huh? Where were you? - Where you see me at.
Mm-hm.
Nine wouldn't go through this.
Why did you come out? - Cos he said to.
Trying to save her life.
Right, I'm saying This is like Bank of England glass.
Fort Knox glass.
And who put that up there? Huh? Guy must have had an elephant gun or some shit.
I don't know.
The boy had a mask on.
A mask, huh? Like Zorro, huh? - When did that happen? - A few weeks back.
Put in a report? - It got away from me.
Mm-hm.
Andre, we're going to need you to come down to the office and straighten out a couple of things.
I'm running a business here.
I ain't going nowhere.
Give me a bottle of Mylanta.
Please.
His whole story is fucked, and here's why.
First, it don't make any sense.
The shooter took out the woman and left him breathing to talk to you.
He should be dead, too.
Second, that's a drug depot in there.
The glass, reinforced steel, camera, low inventory.
And, third, he's shining us on about that big-ass.
50-cal hole because I know who put it there and he knows.
And if he were to say, "Oh, that? That's Omar's previous.
"Ripping off a re-up in here," which is what happened, he be fucked.
So what? A guy comes in the first time with a.
50 caliber because he knows the glass is thick, then comes back the next week with a nine? The job isn't about picking the stories we like best.
Motherfucker.
Now you're going to lecture me about what the job is? - My apologies.
OK.
Let's go downtown.
It's a new law, yo.
Three pills, that's felony weight.
And you're on a pre-indicted corner.
What? - You better show some stash, or it's off to Cheltenham.
Those DC boys down there, too, right.
They love fresh Baltimore ass.
Mm.
Mm-mm.
I ain't know no stash.
They say it's better than pussy.
Hah! - Those my pills.
Yeah? Have you ever heard of federal guidelines? Pre-indicted corners, homeboy.
Three years mandatory.
Unless you mitigate.
Mit-a-what? - The stash, front boy.
I don't know no stash.
Those my pills, man.
I'm high right now, look.
Yeah.
Yeah? They gonna love him up in there.
Come on.
I saw him first.
Bitch is mine.
Those are my pills, I swear.
That's two.
Get the fuck in the car.
Damn, fractions? - He's doing fractions.
Shit, you know what we talked about in my new class? - What? - Slinging.
Yo, I'm not playing.
We talked about business, about putting shit on the damn street.
Nigger, please.
It was like we schooling them.
Yo, my new class is the shit.
You going by the gym today? No, man.
I gotta go vial up what's left on this package so I can re-up.
All right.
All right, man.
Peace, man.
That shit crazy, though, right? - I gotta leave soon, Duquan.
OK.
What level are you on? - 12.
Ah.
I never made it past ten.
Wanna see me get to 40? That's cheating.
Want me to show you how? - Baltimore City Police Department.
Uh, yes, ma'am, this is Sydney Handjerker with Handjerker, Cohen & Bromburg.
I'm trying to locate a Sergeant Thomas Hauk in regards to a client I'm representing.
Hold, please.
Mayor's office, Lieutenant Hoskins.
Yes, hello.
This is Ervin Pepper of Pepper, Pepper & Bayleaf.
I'm calling in regards to a Sergeant Thomas Hauk in regards to He's no longer on this detail.
Hold on for a minute.
Major Crimes.
May I help you? Uh, this is Dr.
Jay calling with test results for Thomas Hauk.
He's on the street.
You want to leave a message? Hello? - Let's do it.
Just walk up on him, all right? Snap one.
Make sure he's from New York first, right? Gotta ask.
Ask what? "You from New York?" No, ask a Baltimore question, something a New York nigger won't know.
What's a Baltimore question? - I don't know, maybe something about club music.
They don't know nothing about that shit up in New York.
Huh? - Ask him, like, who Young Leek be.
We're shakin' it, jiggin' it Or K-Swift.
Man, I don't know nothing about that 92Q shit, man.
Man, who gives a fuck, yo? You don't know Marc Clarke? "The Big Phat Morning Show"? You ain't right, girl.
The average Baltimore nigger know all that shit, a'ight? They don't listen to that shit in New York.
They listen to some bullshit.
Go ahead.
Whatever.
Got a bet going on, man.
What's up? Who's your favorite on "The Big Phat Morning Show"? Your New York girl, Sonjay.
Who? - Kill that show any day.
Snoop, yo.
Snoop, yo.
Yo.
Chill! Sonjay be on the show, too.
Maybe I ask the questions from now on, all right? They entrap some poor bastard on a bet, haul in $20 of drugs.
They've got to process him, feed him, property voucher his bike.
Next they're working on some 14-year-old like he's Bin Laden.
The big haul is three vials of cocaine.
I mean, are you with this? I've been fighting this bullshit for years.
You pick the targets that'll make a dent out there, reduce the violence.
So what's the problem? - Problem is I do what I'm told.
Meaning? Mr.
Mayor, I'm no more a racist than you are.
The thing about affirmative action - I'm just talking policy here, no offense - None taken.
It's a numbers game.
And numbers games breed more numbers games.
You need a 20% hike in black officers to match the city demographic.
But that's got to be reflected up the chain, which means fast-tracking some people past where their How do I say this? Their experience warrants.
And he who owes his good fortune to the numbers, abides in them.
Gotta show arrests are up 15, 20%? We'll worry about the quality later.
So what you saw out there, it's a con game, a Band-Aid on cancer, so no, I'm not with this, but I do follow orders.
However, if those orders were to change or if I had the opportunity to change them myself Oh, no, you not! What's this shit doing in my house? - I'm stretching bottles, Ma.
Your daddy bring his work home? That's what you got a lieutenant for.
Police come through this door they have this whole house.
This has got to be packed up and elsewhere right now.
All right, be cool.
Wait till Bey hear about this.
Did you hear that appeal to racial solidarity? I'd like to kick his pale entitled ass.
Were you listening? He's no more a racist than I am.
Might have to kick your ass, too.
What have you heard about this fella Daniels? - Major in the Western.
Yeah, he's there, but not much politically.
I don't think he's got any suction with anybody.
Where's the Rice-A-Roni? Ma, where's the Rice-A-Roni? A boy on the stoop looked like he was starving.
So you cooked it for him? - No, I just gave it to him.
You just gave it to him.
Boy ate a raw box of Rice-A-Roni? How much did you sell the groceries for? Don't look at me like that.
I gotta go out.
Ten? - You have your Rice-A-Roni profits.
Michael, come on! You ain't gonna hold the DSS card if you ain't gonna do right by me.
You're gonna let me hold that card.
You a hard child.
Next time, don't go selling the food out of our mouths! Yeah, like y'all say - don't lie, don't bunk, don't cheat, don't steal or whatever.
But what about y'all, huh? What, the government? With the Enron? Steroids, yeah.
Liquor business? Booze is the real killer out there.
And cigarettes? Oh, shit.
You got some smokes in there? - I'm trying to quit.
And drugs paid your salary, right? - Not exactly but I get your point.
We do the same as y'all, except when we do it, it's like, "These kids is animals.
" Like it's the end of the world coming.
Man, that's bullshit, all right? Cos it's like, what is it? Hypocritehypocritical? We got our thing but it's just part of the big thing.
Exactly.
But this corner-boy thing, right? All y'all did all this talking up in here.
Could you write down the laws to your thing? - Hell, yeah.
I'll do it right now.
Shit.
No, can y'all do it together? I give the test on fractions, half the kids have breakdowns.
I have a lot of kids who can barely handle whole numbers.
Well, if it's any comfort, I have, outside of my advanced class, maybe half a dozen reading at grade level.
Try the periodic table of elements.
Thing is, it's your curriculum and you have to stick to it.
I can't.
It's absurd.
You have to.
That test is the difference between the state taking over the school or not.
Maybe the state should.
Mr.
Withers You don't teach math, you teach the test.
This is about the leave-no-child-behind stuff getting spoon-fed.
And what do they learn? - Find some middle ground.
Every day try to do a little for the statewide and keep a problem on the blackboard for Donnelly.
If she comes to visit, she thinks you're on point.
The rest of the time, do what you feel like you need to do.
But be careful.
You're still on your evaluation.
The first year isn't about the kids, it's about you surviving.
Get up.
Get up.
Hands on your head.
I was eating that.
Fuck you.
That's my lunch.
Fuck you.
Find a wall, motherfuckers.
Man Pick your feet up.
This is harassment.
What did I say? "Fuck you.
" - That's what you said to me.
There's nothing here, man.
Oops.
My bad.
You want to play games with me? I'm going to be in your shit every day until my camera comes home.
You hear me? Every day.
You and yours.
Let's go.
Ah.
That felt good.
The old Western DEU rides again.
Yes, sir.
Anyone from the CID report to the front desk.
Respectfully, sir, I would feel better if you clear this through the chain of command.
Yes, sir.
I'll think about that.
Problem with the bosses? - One in particular.
That was our mayor-to-be.
Carcetti? - Seriously? - He wants to meet.
You and him? Alone? He wants to talk about the police department.
What works, what doesn't.
You have the mayor's ear now.
Look at you.
Here's the thing.
What do I say? - What do you mean? - How honest should I be? It's one thing to talk tactical shit or enforcement strategies, but the shit that actually goes on? If I start on that, I don't know if I can stop.
Cedric, this is your chance.
This is a career.
What if I take my shots at Burrell and Rawls and he decides not to clean house? The new mayor calls you up, asks you for your take on things - and you don't want to be, what, impolitic? - Carcetti, I don't even know the man.
If he's calling you, it's because guys like Burrell and Rawls are on the ropes.
Maybe.
I know there's a risk but baby, I'd fire away both barrels.
All white out here, man.
Up top.
All white.
All white.
You got that grub, you got that pot.
All white.
Shakin' and jiggin' it, yo.
Who made that track? Yo, who you talking to, dawg? I'm asking who Young Leek be.
You mean Too Fat's cousin? Who? - Nah.
Then how the fuck should I know? - Who the fuck is you Aw, shit.
Nigger got smoked.
Fuck that nigger.
What up, B? - Where Ma at? - Upstairs.
Michael, my daddy came home.
Daddy came home? - Look who home.
Michael.
Damn, you grew.
And a pack of Kools for Macia.
Still tricking for that clown? Why do people talk trash about him? All I know is he loves me.
When you get tired of him going upside your head, you'll really know who loves you.
Whatever.
Whoa.
Motherfucker, what? - He had 12 years.
Parole.
It was only a drug charge.
You swore he wasn't coming back.
This is a good thing, Michael.
It's going to be back the way it was.
The way it was? We a family again.
You lied to me.
People change, Michael.
He said you can give him the independence card too.
He gonna take care of all that for us.
Thanks for coming up from Washington.
We're happy for the opportunity.
You've got some heat behind you.
But down to business.
The way we see it, we need a citywide turnaround.
Call it the "Baltimore Miracle" or some shit.
Starting with a 10% drop in crime.
That was your campaign cry, you want the double digits.
No doubt.
Then he's gotta do a bricks and mortar, put his name on something downtown.
We're flush with stadiums, got hotels out of the ass.
You got a good convention center? And an expansion.
Gotta get something on it that says "Brought to you by Tommy Carcetti.
" Think on it, but you don't have too much time to decide.
Anything else? - Education always polls good.
Uh, no, not the schools.
Our last four administrations left us with an inner-city system with inner-city problems.
We get involved, start talking shit, it becomes our mess.
Gotta respect the depths.
One, you get the drop in crime, two, build something downtown and three, stay away from schools.
And, four, keep your boyish good looks.
Do all that, you might run for governor in 2008, maybe take back that statehouse for us, hm? - Can you get the square corners? - Easy.
I don't like these backgrounds.
You don't? They don't fit so good Shiit.
Next time, dude.
You OK? - Yeah.
You sure? - Something at home? - No.
Come on.
I said no.
OK.
If there's ever anything you want to talk about there's me, but if you'd rather, I can write you a pass to see the social worker.
Just say when.
Michael, do you wanna see the social worker? No.
I've never seen kids like them this animated in a classroom.
Focused.
The corner culture kids, at least.
The ones with deeper problems, they opted out.
Deeper problems? - It's not just corner logic.
I see oppositional defiant disorders, clinical depression, post-traumatic stress, and, with Chandra, borderline psychosis maybe.
With those problems, we need a social worker here full-time.
But the corner kids, yeah, they really came alive.
When they talk about what they know, they stay on point.
Shit, they were even taking turns.
Can we get them in that kind of mindset with stuff they don't know? Have them learn on faith alone? In all honesty, this is uncharted territory.
Where do you go from here? How about we just let this ride, see where it takes us? All right, here's the thing - once you got it, it's all you.
Anything happen, I'm-a have to fuck you up.
Yeah, but that's nothing.
The guy trusting me on this, Marlo, he'll kill you and your whole family.
So don't shake the bottles cos Marlo weighs that shit.
I ain't shaking shit.
See that you don't, cos if you fuck with them, I'm gonna know.
All right, that's good.
All right, it's good.
All right, you under 13 and shit.
So you safe from everybody but me and Marlo.
So I'm a lieutenant now? - Yeah.
You my lieutenant.
And alls I get is an extra $10? You do this good and we'll talk.
See this guy here? That's the grand jury prosecutor.
Now, you lie to us, it's just good clean fun.
But you tell tales to that three-piece motherfucker, oh, shit! I ain't telling lies.
Gary, let me ask you hypothetically, how much time does a witness get for lying to your grand jury? - You kidding? As much as I can get him.
What's the max? - Ten years.
Oh, people go away for ten years? Oh, hell, yeah, all the time.
Ten years! I thought he was gonna say two or three.
That motherfucker went upside my head.
I couldn't see straight.
Which motherfucker? - Then they got me on that medication.
It made me groggy as shit.
Then this man starts working at me.
Was it him? - Fuck I did! - I mean, shit I'm still groggy now.
I mean, I got to, uh Is there a washroom around? Lying motherfucker.
For real? Pull over, asshole.
Shit.
Step out of the car, please.
Step out of the car.
Put your hands on the car.
Got anything on you? Have a seat on the curb.
Cross your feet.
Hands on your head.
What the fuck is this powder? - Lime for my mama's garden.
What, are you building a clubhouse? - That shoot nails.
Be cool.
I know what it does.
I want my fucking camera.
I heard what you said at Comstat the other day.
I also hear you're a commander who knows police work.
Nice of people to say.
I did a ride-along in Eastern, watched some street pops, undercover rips.
So what am I thinking? - My guess you witnessed a waste of time, money, energy and, in a few cases, talent.
Rawls says it's Burrell's numbers game.
Says if I unleash him, all that bullshit goes south.
A return of high-end police work and it'll be the dawning of a new day.
Rawls said that? - Yeah.
Says he's just following orders, being a good soldier.
What do you say? Mr.
Mayor, if you want to talk about what happens in the street or in the Western, I'll talk your ear off.
But I'm a soldier too.
I don't go up the chain with my opinions.
I can respect that.
I will say this though - we did have one unit doing high-end stuff, Major Crimes working out of an offsite on Clinton Street.
"Did" is past tense.
What wrecked it? Good question, Mr.
Mayor.
With Ray Foerster's passing, I need a new CID commander right away.
Would you object to being a colonel working under Rawls? - Under Rawls? - He is deputy ops, is he not? Will the mayor make the changes or leave it to the good soldier? What I'm really asking is - how for real are you? Well, I guess we're going to find that out together, aren't we Colonel Daniels? What the fuck do we do? - I don't know.
These guys don't scare.
If we all kick in, you, me, Sydnor, maybe we could afford a used camera? I thought of that.
It ain't gonna match the serial numbers from the one from ISD.
We've gotta get wood on Marlo.
It's the only way.
This Randy kid, he can't give us a murder, right? Shit, he can't even give us a body.
But he says some Little Kevin kid was the one supposed to tell Lex to go up in that alley.
Plus, what did fucknut say Little Kev said? "Lex went up the alley but he ain't coming back.
" Maybe he saw the whole thing.
Maybe he's our eyeball witness.
Little Kevin.
Little Kevin.
Where's the rest? Um, I'm on a hard strip.
It's tricky on Lafayette.
What the fuck are you doing there? - I gotta build it up.
No, no, you ain't got to build up shit.
Your father built them corners and they owe you cos they owe him.
Bodie got a real short memory when it comes to giving props.
Hm.
Ma I'm going to straighten this shit out right now.
Ma, let me build.
Ma.
Sir.
Bill We need to regroup.
Come up with something fresh for the new administration.
Hm? I don't mind telling you, I'm uncomfortable with the way Carcetti is running around in our shop He's talked to me, several times.
Huh.
You're making your move, huh? We were a good team, you and me.
We were.
Miss Ella, where Bug at? - He went home, Michael.
Nah, he waits for me.
The man who picked him up said he was his father.
And Bug said so, too.
Fuck! Mm.
What the fuck did you do? - And why'd you let him do it? - Listen No.
That's how you got him with his head up his ass, unsolving his own fucking murders.
Your job is to turn red to black, not the other way.
And you, stand the fuck up for yourself.
You don't gotta do the whole thing on your fingers, little man.
Look, first column.
Six and six is - 12.
Put down the two, you bring over the one.
Bug.
Hey, big man.
Get over to me now.
We were going Now.
Yo, hold on.
Yo, you owe me 800 on that, bitch.
You owe.

But it's a snail, you see, and it go, it go, "Meow.
" - It's a what, now? What? - It meows.
Then it ooze all up SpongeBob's belly like it's his pet and shit.
Yo, y'all niggers watch too many cartoons, I swear.
Hey! This is what's wrong with the justice system.
Niggers get locked up and don't stay that way.
They make it hard to take this shit serious.
Mm! - What, you snitchin' or something? - Shit, no, man.
They only gave me, like, four, right? I done 15 months.
So with good time, I'm like, "Man, what the fuck?" - Shit.
Yeah, man.
So Yeah, man, it ain't It ain't like it was, but it'll do.
So who we slinging for? Marlo Stanfield.
Come on, man! - Yo, man, yeah.
I was getting this nice package from Slim Charles, but Marlo got the muscle to hold us down, so that's where we at.
Shit, one boss same as the next, man.
Hey, yo, Little Kev.
I told you about the boy Poot, right? Yeah.
Pussy hound.
You just home? - How long in? - 15 months.
You got laid yet? - Shit, I think I already been burnt.
Shit, I might need a ride to the clinic today.
I see ain't shit changed around this joint.
On the wall, gents.
Make this easy on all of us.
Which one of yous is Little Kevin? Come on, fellas.
It ain't no big deal.
We just need some face time with the motherfucker.
Your name Kevin? - No, this is, uh - Poot.
I'm Poot, yo.
Poot.
Didn't you get locked up or shot or something? Society say I deserve another chance.
Let's see.
Which one of these dickheads is Little Kevin? - I don't know no Kevin.
Society can bite my dick.
Bodie, I know this kid works up here with you.
What's your name? - Do I look little to you? Fuck this.
Everyone under 150 lbs or 5'6" is in the cab.
You, you, and you.
And unless I see birth certificates saying otherwise, you're my Little Kevins.
And if that don't get it, we're coming the fuck back.
All right? That's fucked up, yo.
You got any paper on you? - Man, fuck if I know.
These police out here knew how to flip it even just a little, my shit would be in handcuffs.
You know? They don't know shit.
Damn! When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole You my ride? I'm your motherfucking savior, is what I am.
Told y'all Andre was lying on me, yo.
I didn't do it for you.
Fact is if I could work back on whatever cases I already caught, you might be going right back inside.
I know.
So who did kill that delivery girl? - I don't know.
Know it wasn't Andre.
His blood don't run that kind of cold.
Who he getting his package from? Saying I could go back to the crib and bear up, find some things out if you want me to.
You owe me, motherfucker.
I'm saying I know I do, man.
And if you want to pay down any part of this debt, you know what you gotta do for me? No more bodies.
No more fucking bodies from you.
No more comebacks or get-evens on this.
No more killing.
You owe me your word.
All right, man.
No bodies on me.
You really want to ease my mind, you'll let me drive you down to Aberdeen rail station, put you on a northbound train.
Naw, man.
Baltimore's all I know.
You know what it is like, homey.
Man gotta live what he know, right? You're absolutely right.
There are significant factors to consider, but getting crime under control is key to sparking investment here, - jump-starting growth.
If you make it safe, they will come.
I hate to begin our beautiful relationship with my hand out, but I'm told that two federal grants to my office dry up this year.
Come the first of the year, those DOJ grants evaporate and you're out 12 prosecutors.
I was hoping you'd be able to absorb that in the general fund, maybe throw in a bit more, make it competitive with the PD and Attorney General's jobs, staunch the turnover - it's killing us.
This would be the time to do it.
We're over the revenue expected for this point in the fiscal year next to the real estate market.
How much past? 'Cause I want to come out with a big bump in police salaries, in particular the commissioner's salary, which needs to jump, like, 50 grand.
A good guess would be a one-shot surplus of about 20 million.
But that's rainy-day money for more than crime.
Word is that the schools are running a deficit.
Excuse me.
Did you say a 50,000 bump for Ervin Burrell? - Not for Burrell per se.
For the next police commissioner, then? - That's what you mean? - Looking ahead, it makes sense.
Firing Burrell would upset a good-sized block of my constituency, not to mention the ministers.
And the budget chair might have a difficult time allowing a higher salary to be approved.
In fact, I can guarantee if that proposal's in the budget - your first, for the record - the bill won't come out of committee intact.
I'm just saying that in the event Commissioner Burrell were to leave, we'd want to bump that salary to attract the best candidates, in particular the best African-American candidates across the nation.
With three years left in his term, why would he leave? Councilman, what may not have been obvious to you on the Public Safety Subcommittee is that the budget process is a carefully orchestrated ballet, a cooperative effort between the branches of government.
Madam President, the nuances of that cooperative effort are beginning to come into focus for me.
Thank you, Madam President.
Come on in, everyone.
Don't wait by the door.
Duquan, you're here.
Randy, you're here.
No, you two switch.
Calvin, you're here in the front.
Quanice, you're here.
Michael, you're here.
Destiny, here.
Myesha, here.
Dashonda, here.
Come on, keep moving.
Don't stop at the door.
Come in.
Let's get started.
Could be a problem.
How so? Your boy been assigned to what they call the Major Crimes Unit.
Meaning what? They the motherfuckers that did the last three city wiretaps - one where they bugged Barksdale's office, another where they hit Kentel up in Park Heights.
And the last one, shit, they was all up on Stringer Bell's cellphones.
You ain't still using burners, is you? - I'm dumping them every two weeks.
Not good enough.
You read that.
You'll see that Stringer was changing his number every damn day and they still pulled the motherfucker's voice off a goddamn cellphone tower.
City police did that? - Where'd you get this? - Courthouse, clerk's office.
Hey, this shit's open to the public after they finish prosecuting your ass.
You need to lose them cellphones, son.
Me, I ain't as so much as touched a burner in a year.
You got it.
Now hold the measure and spread your arms out to the side.
What you got? - I want one.
So, your cat can eat 'em? So, how'd you find them? I'm going to the calculators.
Give me that.
Give it here.
The same.
Your height and your arm span - identical.
Quanice? - You about to get me in trouble.
So, you say you like to box, right? You must have some kind of reach.
Everything cheap on computers if you know where to look.
Yo, this mean the price I'm getting from the Koreans, they still marking it up some.
They gotta be.
I can make twice as much using this here.
Uh-uh.
Can't.
All this along the lower Patapsco-Westport area is ready for a turn.
The proximity to downtown and the B-W Parkway make it ideal for Washington commuters.
That's a given.
Anything to speed it up? - A harbor promenade going west from both sides of the bridge.
The South Harbor Promenade, brought to you by Mayor Thomas Carcetti.
And the citizens of Baltimore.
Doesn't quite have the same ring as a stadium or an aquarium expansion, does it? - It's a start.
Further east, you've got the Locust Point Marine Terminal, which is still a working enterprise, and the further you go into Brooklyn-Curtis Bay, the more the skyline disappears.
We lose the Washington crowd.
For that part of the waterfront, you need a different draw.
Casinos? - The urban planning default? I don't want the crime that comes with casinos.
Tax base is tax base.
This is where I get off the boat.
It's one thing to sell waterfront for tax base, but now you're just sucking paychecks out of my community.
It was just a thought.
And, anyway, we're getting ahead of ourselves.
This is just the first long meeting of many.
So, thanks to everyone, and we'll continue this later.
Madam President, a word with you? Do you have a minute? You and me, we got a problem already? Just trying to help guide you through the process, Mr.
Mayor .
.
Elect.
Felt more like you were dragging me across a minefield, Nerese.
Why you so pissed off at me? - Look.
Clarence shouldn't have run again for any number of reasons.
I was ready to step up, and the deal was cut long ago that he'd back me.
You and Tony, you guys jumped the line.
It wasn't your turn.
Whoa, whoa.
Whoa.
I'm sorry if Tony and I ruined your party plans, but I wasn't privy to whatever you and Clarence cooked up.
That aside, I was kind of looking forward to working closely together.
I think that we could make things happen.
You're only getting the one term, Tommy.
I'm not gonna stand down next time.
What makes you think I'll be around that long? Governor's race is in two years, and plans can change.
You might find yourself mayor in 2008 without so much as a campaign speech.
Wasn't easy tracking you down.
The numbers I got for you don't work no more.
I see you got a problem.
Looking rough, Bubs.
I been keeping it clean, you know, pushing my carts and all.
But this one young man, every time I cross him, I get tossed for what I got on me.
Cash, pills.
He look on me like an ATM or some shit, I swear.
I'm ready to work, Kima.
Get this motherfucker off me, I'll do what you need.
Look at me, Bubs.
I ain't in Narco.
Yeah, I see.
You look nice.
I'm working homicides.
So, if the bad boy happen to kill me, you can help me out then, right? If we drive around, you think you can put eyes on this motherfucker? - I can try.
Get in.
So, Nerese is bucking already.
Feels like if the mayor's chair ain't gonna go to Royce, it should be hers.
Problem is, she'll see any proposal to raise the commissioner's salary - as a move against Burrell.
Which it is.
We can't raise the salary, we can't attract strong minority candidates.
No strong candidates, we can't get rid of the guy we got.
Fuck if I'm gonna live with Burrell as my commissioner.
What if he quits? - Quits? Maybe the man can be shamed.
If he leaves on his own account, that takes us off the hook with Nerese and the ministers, right? No.
We don't want your credit card number.
We won't even know the number.
We just need you to order the candy.
And you have cash up front? He pay you back, Mr.
P.
When he sell off, man, he gonna pay you back.
Yeah.
Points on the package, huh? No way.
Come on, Mr.
Prezbo.
Doesn't it teach us math? Addition, subtraction, a quarter, a quarter of a dollar, a dime, a tenth, you know? No cash, no card.
All right.
Fine.
Cash up front.
No problem.
And if you come in with a wad of bills tomorrow, Randy, I want to know where they came from.
I don't want either of you out on the corner.
All right.
Ms.
Thiessen, you OK? I, uh I think my car's been stolen.
Yeah, man.
All right.
So what I'm saying is that you got from Bentlow down there to Rosewood right here.
All right? Now, I got the block from Monroe all the way down to Pacer, so I got you covered from that side, but put lookouts in Franklintown to catch anybody - coming from the other way.
All right, I got you.
Are you ready to work? - Yeah, just get my re-up.
We'll go on about the shit for real.
No, are you ready to work? - Yeah.
Ready to work.
Donut, go talk to Little Kevin for me.
All right.
Watch the ride.
Look, man, please do not be having your mama come talk for you.
Man, I ain't have her do nothing.
She just get on her horse and come with it.
Look.
I done did everything I can for you and yours, but from here on, your moms can't do nothing to help.
All right? Him? From Wee-Bey? Your moms? No sign of the motherfucker Andre.
Store been padlocked a week.
Ain't even calling for his re-up.
Check the man at the jail? Yeah.
People say Omar ain't even been on the tier for two weeks, so he either staying someplace or they got him at county lockup.
Or the charges been dropped.
If this cocksucker's sprung, my man is backing up on his story.
Mean he could back up on y'all.
I'm on it.
How about the New York boys? We dropped five of them.
The rest went to ground.
Drive through East Baltimore, you don't even see a Baltimore nigger with a Yankee cap.
Want us to stay on that too? I talked to the fat man, but I think we're done there.
This shit with Andre? Job one.
We could try the avenue again.
He be behind the market sometimes.
Bubs, I ain't got all fucking day.
I'm on shift work now.
I'm working murders.
He banked me four times this week, Kima.
I'm having dreams about this motherfucker.
All right.
I tell you what - you want to work? I'll call Sydnor or Herc down at Major Crimes, put you with someone doing drug work.
You work for them, they'll help you with your problem.
All right? - I need this now, Kima.
I'll tell them that.
Woman - So show me where you're living, and I'll tell them where they can find you.
Take the left.
I don't understand.
You told the man you not gonna kill no one.
I gave my word on that.
Fuck we doing back here then, Papa? I can still put a gun in Andre's face, right? That man got some explaining to do.
It's dead out here, yo.
Tip on out.
I don't know why he don't trust us with it, yo.
I mean, we trustworthy, ain't we? Just gotta get enough for the first order.
Then we're good.
All right.
Hard six.
Come on, Trey! - I'm in.
Go away, boy.
Oh, you in? - Yeah.
Pass line for me, yo.
Oh, shit! Yeah.
Get that money.
Get that money, shorty.
Get that money.
I heard tell of it, but I didn't believe it.
All this overtime, all for two cases as a secondary.
First the names are red, then they're green, then they're black.
And that doesn't even include the court pay you make if the soft case goes to trial.
Sweet.
So, what you gonna do with yours, Detective Greggs, huh? Pay down some debt.
Why you leaving? - Your luck ain't gonna change.
Don't worry about it.
Yo, thanks for walking us off.
I thought we was gonna get banked.
You ain't gonna bank us, is you? - Shit, boy.
You think I'm that ungrateful? I followed you through ten shooters and made more money than I have in a month.
Nah.
I ain't gonna rob you.
I just need to know next time you fade a dice game.
You feel? I mean, it's all about the math, you know, the probabilities and all.
I ain't never seen you in a game before.
Where you learn your game? Edward Tilghman Middle.
Shit.
All we got is Little Kevin.
Bodie's boy, huh? What'd I tell you? Bubs gets it the first time.
Here.
Y'all meet up with me in the afternoon tomorrow after school lets out and I'll give Kevin a new hat.
A hat trick? Cool.
Yo, Herc, man? - What's up? It's not about the money this time.
He breaking me every day unless I give him something.
I can't take it any more, man.
Once we're done with Kevin, you go find this asshole, hit my cellphone.
I'll be on him five minutes later.
I promise.
Then you add this, yo, and watch it fizzle.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Not so much.
Not so much.
You gonna make it spill everywhere, you see? What are you still doing here? Ain't nobody want you here.
Your mama want me.
Yeah.
You and the pipe.
Shouldn't talk about your mama like that, Michael.
Hey, Daddy, see my volcano? - Bug, go upstairs.
Bug need me too.
Saturday, right? Bug need me.
My teachers say I gotta need glasses.
I gotta have an adult with me.
Pick 'em up.
Sign for 'em.
Bug, go upstairs to your room.
Ice cold, boy.
Way you be? Ain't got a forgiveness to your soul.
Man, fuck you.
Watch your mouth.
You're big, but not big enough.
Nowwhere's that DSS card? Your mama said that come to me.
Ain't nothing left on this month's check anyway.
Before the first of the month, then.
Hey.
Hey.
Come on in.
I see the little man done took over the living room.
Good for him.
You know how it goes.
Well, I'm just messing with you.
Place looks great.
Even the toys look like they belong.
This is - This month and two going back.
I'm just trying to catch up.
I appreciate you not coming after me for it.
Knocking over liquor stores now? Overtime from Homicide.
It stays like this, and I won't have a problem coming up with my share.
Kima - This ain't, "Please take me back," but a deal's a deal, right? Hey, I'm home.
Hey, Elijah.
Hey.
Um Kima, this is Nancine Owens.
Sorry.
The place is a mess.
You could stay for dinner, but tonight we have people coming over.
It's a kind of a celebration, actually.
Yeah? - I passed the bar this week.
Congratulations.
Most of the gals I work with have a problem with that.
With what? - Passing the bar.
Guess I better be going.
Thanks for coming past.
Let's make a bed - Yeah.
Nice meeting you.
Elijah? - Uh? - Say bye to Aunt Kima.
Bye.
Where's Dre? - I don't know! - You believe her? - No.
One last time.
Where's Andre? He said if he told me where he was going, I'd have to tell you.
I don't know.
I don't know.
You believe her now? Yeah.
Dang.
Sure is quiet this early.
Yo, you gonna come with me to see Mr.
P? No, go on up.
I'll see you in homeroom.
Mr.
P.
Randy.
Randy, how did you - Six beats four or five.
And most times eight is better than ten.
Right? You schooled me good.
You gambled? - I didn't even pick up the dice.
I was all, "Pass, no pass.
" Got to the point where some of them was following me in there.
You shouldn't gamble.
I know, but the math be right, Mr.
P.
But I'm gonna come back at lunch, and we can computer up that candy, all right? Peace.
Resign? Either that or the day-to-day running of the department falls to the Deputy Commissioner for Operations.
Erv, I have made no secret of wanting to make changes.
So Bill Rawls is now the voice of reform, is he? This isn't about Rawls.
I have no faith in you, given recent events.
I know you remember the two of us sitting in this same booth a year ago, you telling me about how you respect the chain of command.
Well, respect it now.
Every department head serves at the pleasure of the mayor.
So, if you're firing me, Mr.
Mayor, I want you to know I will go quietly.
You'll tender your letter of resignation? No.
I'm not offering to resign.
If you want me to go, you're gonna have to shitcan me.
A small distinction, I know, but in the meantime, since you have Bill Rawls doing my job for me, and it's such a nice day out, I think I'll go to Forest Park and shoot nine.
The check is yours, I think.
Pick a table, any table.
Eiffel Tower, Big Ben, Empire State Building.
Your table is your team.
The team that puts its model together first wins.
Now, you say y'all can work together out on the corner.
Let's see how you do on this.
Wins what? Big fat gold star and some shit.
Dinner downtown.
Any restaurant you can agree on.
Since y'all only seem willing to be interested in stuff you know, we looked for things like Baltimore.
The scale model of the Fayette Street stash house was all sold out.
So, y'all just gonna have to make do.
Mr.
Colvin, the box say there's supposed to be instructions.
We took those out.
Makes it more interesting, don't you think? It ain't like we follow instructions anywhere else, right? I ain't even want to put no charges on Omar.
But see, they made me do that, and now they're gonna be mad at me 'cause it ain't stick.
Who be "they"? - People I'm getting the package from.
I'm asking who.
Boy named Marlo.
He's big on the West Side.
You heard of him? Vaguely recall the name.
So, I just need to chill for a while till they remember how to forget.
So, now you come over East Side and expect me to hide you.
Why does every Baltimore nigger think that running away means crossing downtown? Shit, you ought to be in New York or Philly or some shit.
No, see, I know that.
It's just that I don't know no one outside of B'more.
I was just hoping, let's say, trade on my store, you could maybe front me some cash, get me out of town with people you know.
I mean, I'd come to the East Side to you, too many West Side motherfuckers are with Marlo.
You know what the problem with these here machines? They too cheap to begin with.
Some people would think for what it's worth to fix it and make the shit work right, you might as well dump them and get another.
for the store and its contents.
Store worth way more, Joe.
It depends, don't it? No, it goes on the other side and shit.
Stop fronting me.
I want to do something.
You gonna curse at me again, I'm gonna cut you.
Get that shit out my face.
I don't even want to do this shit no more.
That's how you always do it.
What are you doing? Look at the box.
Do that look like that's on the box? Nigger, come on, now.
I'm trying to eat.
Give me that piece, yo.
Fuck you, yo.
You don't even know what you're doing.
Just sit there and shut up.
Come over here and make me shut up, then.
You piss me off 'cause you don't know what you're doing.
You're too stupid.
Hey, Z, you do the top while I do the middle.
Darnell, you got the leg parts, all right? Yeah, like that, like that.
Shit! Done.
Aw, that's bullshit.
He's cheating, yo.
Go ahead and touch it, baby.
That shit built to last.
What about the extra pieces? What extra pieces? What's in your pocket? Ain't nothing in my pocket.
So, who cook a good steak around here? I got a T-bone right here.
OK.
One.
From the day of my inauguration, Commissioner Burrell is to undertake no initiative without clearing it with you.
Administrative responsibilities are to reside with the deputy office if they don't already.
I like that.
No problem.
Two.
I need to elevate Stan Valchek.
Good man, Valchek.
He's a hack.
But he's my hack, and I owe him.
If I make him deputy for admin, can he cause any real damage? - I'll watch over him.
No problem.
Three.
I'm bumping Daniels from Western Command to colonel, giving him CID and carte blanche to fix the investigative units.
Cedric Daniels? - Problem? No, he's good police.
He's just got a little independent streak.
Independent from who? I got no problem making Daniels.
What else do you need? That's it for now.
Mr.
Mayor, about Ervin.
If you don't mind my asking, why keep him as a puppet commissioner when you can just fire the guy? We mind you asking.
I'm partial to them cherries.
Yo, Dukie.
You ever call Social Services on your mother? What? I just want to know what happens if you call Social Services on somebody.
You want to report your mother? She brung someone home and he won't leave.
You don't want to call Social Services.
They gets to looking into things, they could put y'all in a group home, split you and Bug up, even.
But I don't want us to leave.
I just want him to leave.
Talking about Bug's daddy, ain't you? Maybe you ought to talk to a teacher about this.
Mr.
Prezbo is real good about stuff.
Mr.
P did say I could go talk to the school social worker.
Mr.
Robinette? He an alcoholic.
What about that boxing guy, Mr.
Cutty? What's wrong with Cutty? I don't know.
Like, he just too friendly, you know? That shit creep me out, man.
Like, he some type of faggot or something.
Not Cutty, man.
He be all up in the women.
Yo, don't you see how he be doing? - That don't mean shit.
Them faggots will be just like that too.
I don't know.
He just too friendly, you know? Everybody just too motherfucking friendly.
No fucking way.
So, his name is What'd you call him? - It's like a joke.
Yeah.
They flipped it.
Bunch of fucking clowns.
Last year we had MSAs in the 22 percentile.
And don't think they haven't noticed it down at the Puzzle Palace.
The word is they're looking for at least a ten-point increase from all city middle schools this time around.
We're still six weeks away from the MSAs and you want us to start teaching the test now? This year, the preferred term is curriculum alignment.
There's nothing wrong with emphasizing the skills necessary for the MSA.
If we can get them to write a paragraph without a four-letter word in it, it'll have to have better command of English.
Marcia, skill sets are one thing, but this has us teaching test questions direct.
Questions that involve skills.
I don't see your point.
You don't want to see the point.
Were you expecting something different than last year? I don't see the math section.
These are language arts questions.
Our greatest failing on standardized tests last year.
So, for the time being, all teachers will devote class time to teaching language arts sample questions.
Now, if you turn to page 11, please, I have some things I want to go over with you.
I don't get it.
All this so we score higher on the state tests? If we're teaching the kids the test questions, what is it assessing in them? Nothing.
It assesses us.
The test scores go up, they can say the schools are improving.
The scores stay down, they can't.
Juking the stats.
Excuse me? Making robberies into larcenies, making rapes disappear - you juke the stats and majors become colonels.
I've been here before.
Wherever you go, there you are.
Ravens got that dude Mike Anderson.
He and Jamal gonna be running Look at these runts.
We're gonna go when that football's in the air on a long pass.
Slow? - Yeah.
Big yellow right here.
Yellows, yellows! - Go long.
Go, go.
Throw it high.
Big yellow.
Go.
Knocko! - Oh, shit! Po-po, yo! Po-po! - Where you going? - Put me down! They're in the alleys.
We get back in there, we can hunt them up.
No need.
I know 'em all.
Let me go, motherfucker! - What about this one? He isn't even bait.
We toss him back - unless you want to spend half the shift down at baby booking.
Me? - I ain't afraid, motherfucker! I don't want to spend this shift down at Evidence Control.
Then why the fuck even do this? - So's I can talk to them.
I like to think that until the handcuffs actually fit, there's still talking to be done.
Come here, man.
Let's take a walk.
Shut the fuck up.
Yo, who we listening to? Miss Lady Day, Billie Holiday.
She sound good.
You know, real sad, kind of.
Yeah.
I'm like that.
You be thinking I'm all ghetto, and then I flip it and mess your mind all up.
The next time we do this, Mr.
Colvin, could you please make it on the weekend? I only had, like, three hours between school and now to get ready.
You look fine, Zenobia.
I could look better.
How long you think it take to do hair like this? I'm ordering the biggest quarter-pounder.
Fries too.
Nigger, this ain't Mickey D's.
You better be thinking T-bone steak, medium rare.
The blood all squirting out? - Nah, ain't no blood.
What you think rare is? It mean rarely cooked, hardly cooked.
Rare.
Get the blood out, stupid.
See? And medium rare, keep the blood in.
All right.
Look.
All I want to know which is which before I order some undone meat.
Hey, Mr.
Colvin.
How it work? Look, we're just gonna ask the waiter.
All right? Oh, shit.
There's a waiter? Just right down the block.
Where she at, dawg? - Ain't seen her.
She owe me.
All that shit I gave her.
I don't know.
How you not know? - I don't know.
She let me find her, I'm gonna cut her titty off.
Watch.
You got something to say, nigger? - No, no.
Yo, where Herc at? I got the asshole, OK? Tell him Riggs and Calhoun.
He knows.
He knows.
OK.
Get the fuck back here.
Nigger, I will fuck you up.
You don't know Lex? I knew the Bull.
I mean, I know him.
But he ain't been around, though.
You see? Right there.
You just fucked up.
You said you knew him, like you knew he was dead.
No.
Now you putting words in my mouth.
I meant, knew him.
When he was around, I knew him.
But he left.
Herc.
Bubbles called.
He sees the guy, the asshole.
He's on Riggs and Calhoun.
Says he'll hold him there five minutes for you to get across town.
I'm in the middle of an interview here.
What the fuck? Tell him we'll fix his problem tomorrow.
All right? Motherfucker.
He ain't got a phone.
You lied to me out on the street.
Why should I believe you now? You was there when Lex got killed.
You were part of the fucking setup.
We know 'cause we have a witness who puts you right in there.
Yeah, we do.
You know right where that body is.
You were there with Snoop, Chris, whoever else.
Know how to make an interrogation work? - Leverage.
We don't have leverage? Motherfucker, you don't even got a body.
Lex is nothing but a name in there.
Where the fuck you think you're going? You ain't going nowhere.
Hey, you.
Hello! Bubbles' Depot here! Bubbles' Depot! What you got for me tonight? I've been missing you all day long, dawg.
We done with this right here.
We done with this.
I ain't got time for your shit.
My shit's all you're gonna get, all right? You can kiss my ass, all the fucking trouble you given me.
What you looking for? It's not there.
It's on me.
It's on you? - Yeah.
It's on you? - Wait, wait, wait! No, no, no! Get off me! Get off me! Get off! Wait, wait, wait! Take it! Take it! - I got you now! - No, no, no! You like that? Fuck! - I don't like the orange ones.
Listen to me, fuckhead.
We know you were there, we know you set him up, and we know you didn't do it alone.
Say what? - You weren't alone in this.
We know that.
You mean Randy? I'm asking you questions, remember? If you don't give us this murder, Kevin, somebody else will.
And when they do, they'll be putting you in.
You hear me? - Colvin, party of four.
I'll make sure your table's ready.
"Colvin, party of four," huh? Hi.
May I take your coat? Sure.
You, sir? - Oh, no.
I'm good.
Yeah, me too.
OK, your table's ready.
Follow me, please.
Sir? - That's your chair, right? No.
You sit there.
The waitress will be here soon to detail the specials of the day.
Enjoy.
Thank you.
Waitress? Who was that? - That's the hostess.
You ain't gotta worry, Mr.
C.
I ain't gonna run up your bill.
I'll get whatever's on special.
It ain't no Kmart Blue Light Special, dumb-ass.
Special just mean they cook something different.
Yo, what about you, drinking without a straw, all ghetto and shit? You don't drink water with a straw.
And put that on your lap, fool.
You see anybody else up in here looking all Fred Flintstone and shit? Sh.
Shut it down.
Other people be looking at us.
Hello.
My name is Pam.
I'd like to tell you about our specials for the day.
We have king salmon with sweetcorn, chanterelles and basil aoli, sauted free-range chicken served with mashed potatoes, fresh Chesapeake Bay blue crab, roasted garlic, shallot cream and hen-of-the-woods mushrooms, and wood-oven-roasted quail - with grilled bread salad.
Dang.
I thought y'all had steak.
Oh, we do, on the second page of your menus.
May I get your drink orders? Yeah.
Uh, we'll take four cokes, please.
Right away.
Thank you.
Do you mind if I come tomorrow? Mind? I Ahem.
You wouldn't be embarrassed? - No, not at all.
I mean I'll be proud if you're there.
It's funny how it works out.
All those years I'm trying to climb the ladder, kissing ass, covering ass, doing what I'm told.
I finally let some of it out, tell 'em what I really think, and I'm going from lieutenant to colonel in a little more than a year.
And, you, you're worried sick about those subpoenas and worried that Lester's killing you with your boss But the subpoenas get me promoted.
I know.
You know, Marla once said to me, "You cannot lose if you do not play.
" But here we are, right? Maybe it's changing.
What is? The city, the way things work or don't.
Maybe we're turning a corner here and it's not gonna be so unbelievably fucked up any more.
To Carcetti.
And us.
Zenobia, you want to take a picture of the restaurant, right? - That's OK.
It's late.
No, no.
That's fine.
Come on.
Give me the camera.
I'm OK.
Come on, give me the camera.
OK.
Y'all want to be in the picture, right? Yo, Mr.
C, can we stop at McDonald's? - Fuck wrong with you, boy? - Food wasn't right.
Don't like fish.
Why'd you order it, then? Yo, shut the fuck up.
Turn it down, man.
What? Turn it down, Namond.
Turn it up? All right, you got it.
Seriously, can I get some fries at least? Boy, you is pathetic.
Just 'cause you a girl do not mean I won't fuck you all up.
You hear me? Nigger, please.
You keep talking all of that shit.
No, you keep talking shit.
Must have forgot.
No, I ain't forget shit.
What I forget anyway? - That I'm the man.
OK.
So, what's the first thing we do when we respond to a prompt? Randy? "According to the text"? "According to the text.
" That's good.
And how do we end the answer? Quanice? Come on.
I know you know this.
"The above-stated facts have led me to conclude that" Right? OK.
So, let's try to read the third paragraph.
I'll start it.
"Pythias makes a final plea to the tyrant Dionysius "to return to his home one last" Calvin, pick it up.
"To return to his home one last time before his punishment.
"He denies the request until Damon inter" Intercedes.
".
.
and offers his own life until Pythias returns.
" Good.
Who wants to guess what "intercedes" means? What about "plea"? OK.
What about the story, then? How would you summarize it? Duquan, give it a shot.
According to the text Everybody's safe in the end, right? OK.
Let's think this through.
"According to the text, "Damon offers his own life on behalf of Pythias "so that he can return home one last time.
"The above-stated facts have led me to conclude "that Damon values Pythias's friendship and loyalty.
" Any questions? We want four of the raw.
For four it should be three.
I'm charging five a head on them New York boys.
That about the going rate.
Still want us on that? - Nah.
Seems like they got the message and went the fuck on.
True that.
Delroy has all of the Monument Street corners back.
All right, then.
Holler at us when the next package in.
Uh-uh.
You remember when I told you about the co-op meant we all stand together, doing for each other when we can? You remember that? Well, the price of four raw is 300.
And your work on them New York boys already been factored into the price, you see? On the other hand, we got something that you want, and it's coming back to you free of charge.
Someone you looking for.
Co-op mean what it sound like, dawg.
You happy to do for me, I'm happy to do for you.
Congratulations, Colonel.
Congratulations, Deputy Commissioner.
Congratulations to all those who were promoted, their families and friends.
It's a proud day for them and a proud day for the Baltimore Police Department.
I am so proud of you.
Thank you.
You know, Valchek we could have guessed.
I mean, he's Carcetti's man, but Daniels? Long time for you to make major, but this was quick enough.
Yeah, who's your new rabbi, huh? Colonel.
So, they didn't know the salad fork from whatever the other fork is for.
So what? I knew they'd be at a loss, but the extent of it I'm talking about feelings - why they feeling this this plummet from masters of the universe to abject fear to humiliated fury and no awareness of it.
Who says they're not aware? Maybe they just didn't acknowledge.
My point is, where do you start with them if they can't even admit their feelings about who they are and what they doing in this world? They're not fools.
They know exactly what we expect them to be.
Y'all missed some meal for real, though.
Take your seats.
It was hot, yo.
"Party of four, Mr.
Colvin.
" - "May I take your coat, Mr.
Brice?" That shit was tight.
I'm dreaming about that chocolate cake.
Oh, my God.
Shit had, like, 56 layers, yo! ".
.
in the checkroom, Mr.
Colvin" "D Money saves Pitman"? It's bullshit! Before, at least they were getting something out of it.
To hell with my evaluation, Donnelly, the state-wide test scores.
I came here to teach.
Right? Yo, Coach, seen Michael? - Nah.
All right.
That wasn't you and your runts I saw down on Bentlow yesterday slinging? Right.
'Cause a gangster like yourself wouldn't set up such a weak-ass shop with no real lookouts, ground stash in plain view.
This is me telling y'all as plain as I can.
You guys had your one chance.
I see you out there a second time, everyone takes a beating and goes to Cheltenham.
Fair warning you just got.
Cheltenham for some drug charges? Please, man.
I'll write you up as a special.
Don't think I won't do it.
Jab, jab! Good.
He don't think I can jail? Shit! I can jail.
What's up? - Namond's banging, huh? Yeah.
He's one of yours, right? He hang around the gym, mostly waiting on his boy Michael.
He don't box or nothing.
He ain't that kind, really.
Not like his father.
Who was his father? - Dude named Wee-Bey.
Stone-headed.
Used to run with them Barksdales.
I know him.
Shit, I locked him up in Philadelphia.
Yeah? Bey was my cut buddy.
We jailed down Jessup.
Anyway, Namond's from him.
Same blood, but not the same heart.
I've done my warm-ups, Coach.
Yeah, we ready for the ring.
Take care, man.
Why we stopping here? I thought we was going straight out.
Gotta get with your escort out.
Prop Joe said you was my escort out.
Manner of speaking, that be true.
Come on over here, man.
Come on.
Chris, no.
You know I keep it quick, Dre.
Here? - Here's good.
Not in a vacant.
What's the difference? The difference is my people.
They won't know.
They'll know.
But the rats.
I'll be alone with the rats.
You're all right.
I got your back.
Come on, Chris.
Let me do it in my house so my people can give me a home-go.
I'll be damned.
Hey, yo, that got to be Marlo, man.
You see? That's the man we robbed, yo, from the poker game.
Ah.
S.
S, s.
No wonder the boy don't like me.
Thought maybe I could catch up with Chris.
I got a problem I can't bring to no one else.
He just a kid.

You've got to be shitting me.
Oh, shit! Get out of the way! - Driving all crazy.
Damn.
I've got a foot chase on a male.
Maybe 13 years, short, with braids, in the alleys eastbound from Fulton.
This kid has bailed out! Bail out! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! - Fuck! - Officer, what are you doing? - What, you need bifocals or something? - What? - 0-9.
I'm responding.
16, 200 north.
I'm gonna need your name.
I'm very sorry, ma'am, all right? Give me that.
Them Expeditions are hard to handle.
With a Lexus I wouldn't have no problem.
You little motherfucker.
You know how many cars you hit? - What? - Don't even think of bullshitting.
I don't know what you're talking about.
You know how much fucking paperwork I got now? Huh? How many hours of my life you owe me, you little shit? Damn, yo! That hurt! - You think that hurts? - No, no! Ah! Ah! You're so smart, - let's see how easy you boost a car now.
Ah! Ah! Ahh! When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole You imagine, Rawls sitting in this chair? Never happen.
In this town? Uh-uh.
Yeah, well, we weren't supposed to have a white mayor, either.
He already overreached putting Rawls in charge.
De-fucking-facto.
Motherfucker ain't even sworn in, already he's got feelers out.
He called the deputy chief in Pittsburgh, friend of mine, promised him pie in the sky.
Shee-it, partner, just show Carcetti and everybody else that they already got the man for the job.
They ain't got to look no further.
The indispensable man.
It was Royce holding you back, Ervin.
Now out from under, you shine.
Clay, he's saying everything goes through Bill Rawls.
Any move I try to make - You're still the commissioner, ain't you? - You give an order, they jump.
But Carcetti He gonna fire you? He just showed you he don't have balls enough.
You just need to give Carcetti a little something.
Make him start seeing you in a new light.
Like what? Some police shit.
I don't know.
Something that looks good to Carcetti, so he can say it was his idea to keep you.
Hm.
"Police shit"? Well, whatever it is y'all do for a living.
Look just take care of your end and let your friends handle theirs.
Good morning.
I just dropped my stuff in my room, and maintenance and Donnelly are checking the heat.
It must be 80 degrees in there.
90-minute classes.
Excuse me? This time of year, we go to 90-minute classes.
Concentrated prep in math and language arts only.
I don't follow.
Why the heat? It's the only way kids will sit through 90 minutes of anything.
Make them drowsy? - Right.
So it's about the tests.
From now until they're done, everything's about the tests.
Damn! I ought to go somewhere warm.
Plymouth Rock! - Where? - I saw on Animal Planet, marlin fishing.
Like, Florida, the Bahamas.
That shit looked sweet.
The water was like thisthis color, man.
It ain't gonna be that cold this year.
How you know? - Global warming.
So why is it so cold already? Yo, we just getting old.
Yeah.
True that.
Where the fuck you been? City jail for a day and a half till they recogged me.
Then my grandma got sick, so I was over there for a while.
Po-Po hit you with a charge? - Just false statement and shit, for saying I wasn't who I really was.
Damn, so why they was asking about you like that? Mm-mm.
They try talking to you? - Yeah, about some murder.
Which one? - It don't matter which murder, because I ain't say shit to them bitches.
Yeah, well, I ain't the one you need to convince.
Plymouth Rock! Plymouth Rock! - Why I got to convince him? - I'm saying, yo.
Po-Po come asking about you, you out of pocket for a few days.
Yeah.
He'll definitely hear about it.
I ain't say nothing to nobody.
That's why they dumped my ass in Central Booking, because I ain't say a fucking word to none of 'em.
Yeah, so go tell him that shit.
Shit, man, if it were me, I'd go to him first.
Yeah, jump out in front of that.
If they come looking for you, it looks like you got something to hide.
Definitely.
Ghetto bird special.
Two for one.
What you want? Menu, yo.
Give him a menu.
What's good? - Fuck if I know.
You ain't supposed to cuss at the customer, motherfucker.
Darnell.
All right.
Let me getpizza.
Pizza.
Anything to drink? Grape soda.
Quiet, please.
Is that it? - Yeah.
Thank you.
Say thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Menu? Don't he got to say "thank you," too? - Darnell.
Why? He's supposed to give it back.
When you are polite to people, they treat you better.
Have a seat, please.
Now you be the waiter, and Albert, you be the customer.
What you want to eat? Some crab cakes and a Coke.
Hurry that shit up, too.
Been on the phone nonstop with Fourth Avenue.
They insist every class teaches to the test.
Oh, God.
I thought we were the exception.
That's the point of the project.
They know that.
No exceptions.
or language arts only.
They can't do 30 minutes without climbing the walls.
Isn't there somebody we can talk with, face to face? Actually, the area superintendent wants to see the two of you tomorrow, nine o'clock in the conference room.
Let's not panicyet.
Qu es esto? - Business as usual.
Marlo.
You no know him when we robbed the gang? - We ain't never been introduced.
Boy's merely a name to me.
If you knew it was Marlo, you'd still go through with it, no? I wish I'd have known.
I'd have enjoyed it that much more.
Bubs.
It's Herc.
You hungry? Yo, what you done was fucked up, man.
I felt bad when I heard.
Not only were you late, you just rolled right past.
Ain't you see me getting beat? - We rolled by? - I seen you with the blue light on, man.
Whatever.
Look, we had a communication problem, I admit.
But I'm gonna get you a phone today.
That's gonna solve it for us.
You'll see.
Thing is, there's this camera, police department video camera, disappeared a few weeks back.
For various reasons that I can't get into, I got to get it back somehow.
Camera? Yeah.
This fella Marlo probably took it.
I don't know if he hocked it You bothering me about a camera? You supposed to have my back, remember? - Five minutes, you told me.
I know.
I owe on the deal.
It's Tyrone's, chicken wings.
Here's the thing.
I want you to put it out there that there's a $500 bounty on this camera if it comes back.
No questions asked.
500? Swear to God.
I'm good for it.
If it's the right camera.
Here's the model and serial number.
and chicken for Bubs, huh? Another 100 to you if this happens.
But I need this camera quick or shit will fly.
Look, man, it's not about the money for me right now.
This motherfucker, he messing with my livelihood here.
They're always coming back, always.
He's like some Terminator and shit.
I'm with you.
I'll do all I can to help you with your problem, and you're gonna help me out with mine.
Who the fuck is Randy? A little hopper from around the way.
He ain't in the game but he with Michael.
He talking to police? I know it.
He was the one I told, "Go tell Lex to go up to the alley.
"Patrice is waiting.
" - You were supposed to do that.
I know, but this way, try to keep some distance between me and Lex, right? You tell this Randy what happened to Lex? No, I swear it.
Go, motherfucker.
The fuck you still waiting for? - What the fuck y'all following me for? - Easy, son.
Naw, ain't nobody walking with me nowhere.
What's up with this Randy? - He can't hurt us.
He a snitch, though.
Put that around, then.
Slim.
Marlo.
How you feeling? - Can't complain, yo.
Getting to be that time, though.
Joe wanted me to check in, you know.
All right.
Pull up a chair.
Let's chop it up.
Now, that there a Barksdale boy.
So? Don't add up.
Interesting, though.
Got a burner, see? If anything else comes up, you call me.
If this guy robs you again, make sure he's holding.
The more the better.
Shit, I ain't got money for all that.
There's 40 minutes on that, and my number's in there.
I'm gonna call you today or tomorrow at the latest.
One and one.
Damn, son.
He did a number on you.
Who was it? - Officer Walker.
Walker be evil.
What up? - Four.
We ought to fuck him up.
Walker? Yo, he the police.
I'm just saying.
He said next time I steal a car, I'm finding myself dead.
You gonna do as he say? - Fuck, no.
Soon as I get this shit off, I'll be running his ass all over town.
Yo, shit! Told you, Namond.
Gave you fair warning, didn't I? - I ain't done nothing.
Get the cash.
Got you cold.
Hair like that, I saw you from East Baltimore.
Get the fuck off of me, man.
Shut up! - Look what I found.
That ain't fucking mine! Hands on the car! Spread legs.
I ain't fucking got - Shut up! How you like it so far? Having fun? Guess what? Gets better.
Give me your hands.
Watch your head.
Damn.
Y'all not wasting any time, huh? Nerese let us stage in the council suite till the inauguration.
No doubt, after your showing in the general.
No doubt.
81 %? outnumber Republicans nine to one Anything less would have been an embarrassment.
So what can we do for you, Senator? Well, uh, first of all, I wanted to clear the air.
No hard feelings over what happened during the primary You gonna give the money back? - Senator, it's been a very long day.
I'll cut to the chase.
I understand you have a problem at the top of the police department.
You asked Burrell to resign.
He declined.
I'm looking for a replacement.
The ministers like Burrell.
So does the council president.
We're confident that when we identify a suitable candidate, Ms.
Campbell and the ministers will see the wisdom of new leadership.
Except y'all need to get a pay raise through the city council.
Pay raise would help.
I can ask Nerese about that pay raise getting passed, maybe convince some ministers they need to move on from Burrell.
The situation would have to be resolved sooner rather than later.
Do my best, partner.
And what do we do for you in return? I'm in Annapolis.
Word I'm hearing, you may be there too, in a couple of years.
We may find ourselves working together closely.
Thanks for your time.
Jesus Christ.
He's slick.
Apologizes for the short con and in the next breath, setting us up for the long.
He and Burrell are as thick as thieves.
What is the long con? At least we know he's running one.
Shiiiii - Try calling again.
Man, I know she not gonna answer.
My moms don't answer when she go to AC.
When she coming back? - She going to New York after.
What's she doing in New York? - Shopping.
Going to see some show, The Color Purple.
See, now this is where my job gets good.
You reach a guardian, the juvenile master's gonna recog you on a first-time drug offense.
But now you'd better have a toothbrush on you, son, because it's gonna be baby booking tonight.
Namond, you scared? If it was Cheltenham, I don't blame you, but baby booking's just across town.
The East Side be beefing with the West Side in there.
There's dudes be getting raped and shit.
I mean, that's what I be hearing.
It's bad in there.
I don't know if it'sthat bad.
Well, I hear different.
You got no other family? I got a aunt down in PG County.
You got a number? - Well, I ain't driving you this late - Come on, man.
Tell you what.
Two of my guys are working a double, working midnight shift tonight.
If you can plant yourself on that bench there, you can stay here for the night.
But first thing tomorrow, you raise that aunt or raise your moms, or I got to process you.
You don't move off that bench.
You need the bathroom, you go now.
Otherwisesit tight and don't give anybody any trouble, - or they'll process you right then and there.
I'm cool.
Thanks.
Fucking charity ward here.
I'll go tell the shift commander.
Yo, Lieutenant - He a 50? - No.
Probably copping it for my moms.
That's why? Look.
I told y'all, I just want him gone.
I just want him away from me and Bug.
What the fuck did he do to you? All right.
We'll take care of it, boss.
Another church burglary last night.
Madison Park Methodist.
This would be what you'd call a rash.
We could use some ointment.
We need to arrest these fucks.
We getting anywhere on that? - Not yet.
Who caught the last one? McNulty? - Working it.
We should talk.
All right.
Word from on high is to sweep corners.
They want arrests to double.
How the fuck how? - The election's over.
Quality-of-life violations.
What are we talking about, loitering? - Disorderly, public indecency.
This is horseshit.
Broken-windows theory.
Worked in New York.
This ain't New York.
But it could work here.
Never has.
Never been done right.
Open containers, too.
No writing tickets? - We'll do more of that too.
But the commissioner himself wants to juke arrests.
Open container used to be sacrosanct.
In a paper bag.
They gave you that much respect.
A man's beverage was his business.
You took them to a restaurant? - Yeah.
Ruth Chris.
Linen napkins.
Yeah.
Silverware, more than one fork.
How'd they do? - Pretty well, considering.
Did they embarrass us? - Us? No, we're fine with it, but I mean, they were intimidated, embarrassed and awkward as hell, but they made it through.
These aren't the kids that can sit still for the statewide tests, much less do well on them.
These were the kids that made it impossible for anyone to do well.
So, we're writing them off? No, that's what we're not doing.
You're not educating, you're socializing.
They weren't being educated before.
Excuse me? - Hold on.
What he's saying is this.
You put a textbook in front of these kids, or teach them every problem on some statewide test, it won't matter, none of it, because they're not learning for our world they're learning for theirs.
They know what they're training for and what everyone expects them to be.
I expect them to be students.
But it's not about you or us, or the tests or the system.
It's what they expect of themselves.
Every single one of them is headed back to the corners.
Their brothers and sisters, shit, their parents, they came through these same classrooms.
We pretended to teach, they pretended to learn.
Where'd they end up? The same damn corners.
I mean, they're not fools, these kids.
They don't know our world, but they know their own.
I mean, Jesus, they they see right through us.
We made that clear when you approved the project.
Provisionally approved.
And then, we made it clear that we would be addressing children that required socialization before they could be properly educated.
We can't lie.
Not to them.
Captain, line three.
Roll call's over.
You get a line on your mother yet? Fucking neglect case here, I want it.
How about that aunt? Ain't nobody else? No other responsible adult? - Like who? - I don't know.
I'm giving you one last shot, cos once I go on the street you're gonna have to go to booking.
I got a teacher.
Mr.
Colvin.
You know him? He used to be police.
Tall? Bald? Yeah.
Yeah, I know him.
What if you get the one snitch? The one with the cart.
What's his name? Bubbles.
Bubbles.
Yeah.
You get Bubbles to say he's Fuzzy Dunlop.
Bubbles has been a registered CI for years.
Kima gave him a number back when she was in plain clothes.
Herc, you worked with him under that number on the Barksdale stuff.
So how would you fuck up the ID? - Fuck me, man.
Look.
The only way to get out from under this is to stop fucking lying, OK? Grab your dick, walk into Marimow's office, and say, "Lieutenant, I made a mistake.
"I attributed my PC to an informant when in fact I had it off a camera.
" That I got from ISD without going through the proper channels.
No.
He's gonna take my stripes.
Maybe he does.
But if you wait until ISD asks for that camera and he figures out the lie, he takes your fucking balls.
Come on! Let's go! Just around the corner.
Got you now, motherfucker.
In going over my paperwork, it occurs to me I may have been neglectful.
Look at all this crap! Every day, more and more of Lester Freamon's bullshit washes up with us.
What the fuck are you saying? - My paperwork may have been a little sloppy, and as a result, I confused myself on some things.
No shit, you were sloppy.
I went back a couple weeks on your run sheets.
Nothing there references a meet with a CI 238.
You went through my run sheets? - The best I could.
Sir, listen - I don't care.
Turn that fucking thing off.
I am starting to believe that this Fuzzy fella doesn't exist.
I am starting to believe that you just followed Stanfield into the train station and grabbed the first broad he brushed up against.
That what happened? - No.
No, sir.
You lie to me now, Sergeant, and I guaran-fucking-tee you I will jam you up, ship this whole mess to IID and pass out sandwiches at your execution.
Yes, sir.
You haven't had a case yet worth talking about, not on Marlo Stanfield, not on anyone.
You bring me something other than IID complaints, and I might have reason to let a few things slide.
Mad at me? - Come on, now.
Dukie's just mad at everybody.
Snitch bitch.
Yo, what the fuck was that? I don't know.
I can't believe y'all doing this shit.
You're degrading the quality of life in this neighborhood.
Malt liquor.
Come on, man! Brother, shake hands with a pilsner, maybe a nice pale ale.
Hell, what? Man! My brew! My shoes! - God! Man.
What's the violation? Parking in a bus stop, expired registration.
First-class police work.
This is the word from up on high, straight from the eighth floor downtown.
Blessed bosses juking stats for the new administration.
I know you think it's bullshit but I spend my shift where they tell me.
Baker, let me tell you a little secret.
A patrolling officer on his beat is the one true dictatorship in America.
We can lock a guy up on a humble, lock him up for real, or we can say, fuck it, pull under the expressway and drink ourselves to death, and our partners will cover it.
So no one, and I mean no one, tells us how to waste our shift.
Pulled the reports on those church burglaries.
Yeah? - Yeah.
There's a pattern.
Times and locations.
They're working west by northwest through Sandtown-Winchester.
The last three, here, here, and here, these ones in blue are the churches they haven't hit.
This is from the incident reports? - That's why we do the paperwork.
Giving me a fucking ticket, man? Are you out of your motherfucking mind? - I live here, man! - This could get out of hand.
That's what we want, isn't it? More arrests? - Why you messin' with me, man? No justice, no peace.
It'll only be for tonight.
Mama gets back from New York tomorrow.
Your call.
The young man seems to think highly of you, boss.
He invoked your name with a measure of respect.
It wasn't but a few weeks ago I was with him being called everything but a child of God.
"Mr.
Colvin, sir.
"Fuck you.
" Well, at least I said, "Mr".
So what was the charge? - Slinging.
He'd been out there a few weeks or so.
First pop, second warning from me.
Maybe you should put him on the juvenile bus.
He want so bad to be a gangster, maybe it's time he get a taste of a real lockup? Come on, Mr.
C, don't do me like that.
I made him sleep on the DEU bench last night, if that counts for anything.
Isn't there anybody else? Friend, relative, anybody? You've always been good with the knuckleheads, boss.
All right.
Let me go call my wife.
Yeah.
Go up in that building.
Mm, man, that was delicious.
There's more.
No, ma'am.
Saving room for the cobbler.
A la mode? - Uh huh? Would you like ice cream on it? - Oh, yes, ma'am.
Nice manners.
From what you told me on the phone, Bunny, I was expecting more of an adventure.
Bunny? Only my friends call me Bunny.
Yeah, but why? - You don't need to know.
And if you tell anybody, I'll cut your balls off.
I'll cut them off, give 'em to Donnelly in a jar.
Don't doubt me, boy.
You ain't got no kids? Grown.
They at college and past that.
You told me these kids were rough.
Thank you, sweetie.
But don't be fooled.
This is his Eddie Haskell act.
Eddie Haskell? Who that? You are, son.
Trust me.
Take a seat.
Against the wall with the others.
Welcome wagon's coming.
We need the key to the interview room.
Why? - Felony burglary.
Felony? Caught them coming out of St.
Martin's on Fulton.
Charging them with the one, but we might work back on a few more.
No shit? Knew there was still some real criminals left in Baltimore.
Swear to God, I'm seeing citations for jaywalking.
We're locking people up for open container, for disorderly, for loitering.
Neighborhood people appreciate quality-of-life arrests.
We're locking up neighborhood people.
My guys, all they see are stats.
The election's fucking over, right? Who are we doing this for? - Is this from Burrell or Rawls? - From the chief of patrol.
It's rolling downhill, for sure.
Morale? Split down the middle.
The officers that love the stats are jazzed.
The rest of you? - We don't know where to turn.
I thought a new mayor might change this shit, not ramp it up.
You still fucking that bitch? Yeah.
It burning like hell, man.
When you gonna burn the bitch back? Check it.
Slim! - B, what up? - All right.
Poot.
It's good.
Heard you out.
Yeah.
Welcome home.
Thanks, dawg.
And you with Prop Joe now.
Never would have thought.
Yeah, well, life's strange.
Yeah.
Holler.
Bodiehow you and Marlo? You OK with him? As far as I know, yeah.
Why? - What he did to your boy.
What boy are you talking? Big boy, the one rub his hands together all the time? Kevin? What about him? You ain't heard? Chris and Snoop walked him down an alley.
He in a vacant now.
How you know that? I seen them lay hands on the boy.
And now the word out on the street.
Sorry, dawg.
Let's roll.
Plymouth Rock.
Got that Plymouth Rock.
All right.
But now look at the next example question on page 20.
As you can see If you turn to page 20, they will sometimes ask you for words that are the opposite of words that are underlined.
Thank you, Mr.
Pryzbylewski.
Thank you.
All right, put away your test notebooks.
Work on those tomorrow.
We have 45 minutes.
We can do Last Of The Mohicans No! Or practise probabilities.
Yeah.
I'll get the stuff, Mr.
Prezbo.
All right.
I want to see everybody's worksheets out.
Kareem, you want to play dice with me? Not with you.
And we're not just playing games here, - we're doing math.
I'll roll with you, man.
Come on.
No kidding.
We are.
That's my boy resting his head, see? Mm.
Hey, Renaldo, you want one? - No.
They're from Faidley's, yo.
He might stay home all day, you know? We gonna find out, ain't we? - It's about my DSS code.
You have an appointment? - Why I need an appointment? - She doesn't need an appointment.
Just making it realistic.
So I get to see somebody? - Take a number and wait.
I need to see somebody now.
Don't get angry.
Anger doesn't help.
It makes people defensive.
Tell her what you need calmly.
Card didn't come this month.
We mailed it.
Maybe it got stolen.
Sorry.
Nothing we can do.
Fuck you.
Chandra! - She ain't helping me.
That's how they do.
Just tell her what you need.
Need another card, bitch.
Chandra! - And that's real too.
Fuck you for real.
Ooh! Calm down, calm down.
Go with Ms.
Mason.
Get your hands off! - Ms.
Mason! - I'll get the school police.
You all right? She was like - And thenshe was like - Typical day? I wouldn't know.
My first time.
Your first time? Mrs.
Donnelly oversees this project.
OK.
Good morning, ladies.
Help a man get something to eat? God bless.
Good morning, Reverend.
Yo.
Glad you finally answered.
I was in a meeting.
You got the asshole pinned down? Nah, I got Marlo's people, getting ready to make a drop.
Where? - Emerson, near Pulaski.
You eyeballing them now? - Yeah, he got the package.
Black bag, putting it in the trunk.
He getting in now.
What make? Late model Lincoln.
You want the license? - Yeah, give it.
P-R-8-Z-G-O-D.
Yeah, he pulling out now, turning down Gilmore.
Dozerman, get me Foxtrot.
Good job, Bubs.
We're on it.
Ladies, a cellphone? It's got, like, a half hour on it.
No, thank you.
What I saw today wasn't education as I understand the term, and they didn't seem very socialized, either.
You didn't catch us on our best day.
Or your worst day? On the whole, they've made a lot of progress.
Look, they come to class.
They're more engaged.
We're reaching them.
Fewer outbursts, no suspensions.
But are they learning anything? - Yes.
We believe they are.
Be truthful.
If this program were to continue through the rest of the school year, how many of your students could realistically be expected to return to a regular classroom? What do you think, Ms.
Duquette? Namond, Darnell, maybe Zenobia.
Considering where we started, and that those kids ain't tearing up other classes OK.
Mrs.
Donnelly.
A tremendous achievement.
Mr.
Withers? I'll go along with Mrs.
Donnelly.
You haven't said anything yet.
I just don't see it.
Many of these kids are profoundly damaged.
What they've seen, how they've lived.
And I think any gain or progress is temporary.
I think this project may be flawed.
Foxtrot 23-30.
We have a visual on the suspect.
Vehicle headed east on Mulberry.
Do you copy? - 10-4.
We're almost there.
10-4.
After your phone call, I checked.
It came directly from Burrell.
He bypassed Rawls after I told him Burrell's making a play for you to keep him.
By Just What did you call that? - Juking the stats.
Guy is unbelievable.
It runs completely counter to all my discussions with Rawls, with you, with everyone.
He's also serving notice.
He's reasserting control of the department.
He probably figures if you can't fire him, then you can't fire him.
Does Rawls know? - My guess is Rawls heard days ago from half a dozen district commanders.
Why not come to me? - Talk to him.
Why did you come to me? Why not go to Rawls? Because I need to know if you're serious.
If Rawls came to you and this shit is still going on, then you're OK with it, which is for me a problem.
If he didn't come to you, then either he's OK with it, which is also a problem, or he's letting it go trying to give Burrell enough rope for you to get angry and fire him for insubordination.
But I need to know where you stand.
I gave you my word.
Yes.
You did.
Well, thanks for going outside the chain of command.
Don't expect me to make a habit of it.
Stay in the car.
Stay in the car.
Keep your hands on the wheel.
Let's see those hands.
What's the problem, Officer? Step slowly out of the vehicle.
Keep your hands up.
Unh! Son, be gentler than that.
Shut the fuck up.
I ain't your son.
This guy What's this, huh? What's this? Know what? I'm gonna damn sure get your name and badge number.
Daniels.
I don't think I know him.
He hasn't played much politics, though he used to be married to the new councilwoman in the 11th.
Marla Daniels? - Mm.
That's the one.
This is the last man we want as police commissioner, Nerese.
I mean, I squared off against this fella a few years back, and he wouldn't listen to me.
He won't listen to you, the ministers or anyone in the community.
Just Carcetti? - Mm-hm.
He's the mayor's boy, definitely.
Carcetti wants how much of a salary bump? - 50,000, at least, - to be competitive nationally.
Give him 25.
Enough to make him think he can win you over eventually but less than he needs to entice anyone real.
Meanwhile, Carcetti's gonna have to give Daniels six months in CID before he can bump him again, for appearances' sake.
So we're buying time here.
Enough for Ervin to show the mayor who butters the bread.
And for events to take the new-penny shine off Cedric Daniels.
I happen to know he's less the saint than he pretends to be.
This is, uh, Senator Davis.
Is the Mayor in at the moment? Wellyou just tell him his friend Clay got the council president to un-ass a salary bump for the police commissioner.
You tell him write this down, now.
You tell him that Senator Davis has his interests at heart.
Right.
Thanks.
Hey, Ma.
How was New York? Hey, Ms.
Brice.
How are you? Who asking? This is my teacher, Mom, Mr.
Colvin.
Why he here? You in trouble? He stayed at our house last night, you being in New York and all.
Tell her.
The cops picked me up, saying I was slinging.
They was gonna send me to baby booking.
But we took him in.
You leave my son the fuck alone.
And you, you afraid to go to baby booking? The fuck is wrong with you, boy? Get in the damn house! Kid got the point.
All these drunk and disorderlies, graffiti artists, and public urinators, and we come in with a pair of felony burglaries.
Nice of you to give him the collar.
He might turn out a decent police.
Gotta come from somewhere.
Young generation.
What about you guys? Gonna follow in your dad's footsteps? Hello, I don't think so.
Not.
What, then? - Video game designer.
Rock star.
Ahh.
They want to make money.
You schooled them well.
How about you, Little Bunk? You gonna be a detective, like your daddy? - Chief of police.
Nah.
Why not? How about you? He's still in that, you know, pediatric neurosurgeon stage.
Hi.
Hey.
Elena, how are you doing? - I'm good.
How are you? - Can't complain.
Hey, boys.
How are you? Can you say "hi"? Listen.
They're fine.
They really do have manners.
It's all right.
My kids are the same way.
We're just finishing up.
Sit down.
UhOK.
Just for a minute.
Dad, five bucks for the jukebox? What? What happened to three plays for a quarter? - Umhomework? - Done, Dad helped us.
Oh.
I got off early.
Here.
You want to go, too? - So what are you drinking? - I'll have a white wine.
I'm good, thanks.
So it's true? You quit drinking? Well, I have a beer now and again.
No big deal.
How's Dennis? Dennis is Dennis.
We're close, we're not.
You know, we'll see.
How's Beadie? - We're good.
The kids have my number, but - Hm.
Wow.
If I had known you were gonna grow up to be a grown-up Pssh, man.
And I'm the one told him to do the right thing and go talk to the man.
Don't seem that way now, do it? Yo, you got to look at it from Marlo's point of view.
How is it different from Wallace? - Stringer said Wallace snitched.
Yo, Kevin might have snitched too.
Man, but he didn't.
And we had to do Wallace! - Yo, Marlo thought he had to do Kevin.
Man.
But he didn't.
That's what I'm saying.
It's cold, motherfucker.
It's a cold world, Bodie.
Thought you said it was getting warmer.
World going one way, people another, yo.
Now, Elton Brand, what you know about him? Nothing.
You see? Bug, you seen your daddy? Went to the store.
Where you going? - I'm gonna go look for him.
You ain't gonna find him.
Why not? Because he ain't coming back.
Thanks.
What's this about? - Like you don't know.
Man, I ain't been home long enough to get in somebody's shit.
You like boys, motherfucker? - What? - Boys.
You like fucking them? Man, I like pussy.
All right? Booty.
Living with a woman now.
She got kids? I ain't touch them kids! Who told you that? I know what you're saying, but when you're in the inside, ain't no pussy.
Well, yeah, shit.
You've been inside.
Man got to bust his nut, you know what I'm sayin'? I do.
Damn.
You didn't even wait to get the motherfucker in the house.

Yeah, can I get the mixed vegetables and white rice? - OK, mixed vegetables, white rice.
Damn, Du'.
You actin' like this some fancy-ass spot.
It ain't nothing but a Chink joint.
I'm-a order.
Then do it.
I said I got it.
Look at this nigger flashin' his shit like some big-time gangster.
Yeah, he a righteous hustler.
I'm just treating y'all, that's all.
I like to keep it real with the little people.
Man, fuck you, man.
I was talking about you.
I was talking about you.
May I help you? - Can I order the yakame with turkey grease? Yakame, noodles - This nigger ordered turkey grease.
What's wrong, yo? I mean, my mom, she get it all the time.
Yo, you is really one of them at-risk children, you know that, Dukie? - Yo, man, leave him alone, son.
Yeah, I got it.
How much? - $4.
00.
Why is it so funny? - They just goofin' on you.
What's wrong with me ordering yakame? Nothing wrong with you ordering yakame.
It's just the turkey grease that makes the drunks throw up all that liquor they was drinking, go back to swilling that shit.
This shit is good.
Why don't you buy your own food? This is all you getting.
Don't ask for no more of that.
Tastes good as hell.
Yo, y'all heard about what happened to Little Kevin? - What? - He be dead.
He up in them vacants.
Why? Fucked up somewhere, I suppose.
Uh-oh.
What the fuck you little hoppers doing on my avenue? - Eating.
Shit you are.
Probably setting up to snatch a purse.
Get the fuck back on the reservation where your black asses belong.
How you feeling, little man? Need a hand with that food? I said get.
Yo, y'all hear that shit? - "My avenue.
" It's just as much ours as it is his.
Walker be evil, yo.
He be thieving and smackin' folk down.
Yo, we should get him back on the payback tip for all the dirt he do.
You want to throw down with police? I don't mean go at him direct, but, you know, hurt him.
Like, slash his tires or some shit.
We could stick condoms on his car.
That'd send a message.
Yeah, but what kind? We should slap bumper stickers on his windshield.
I mean, they is hard to get off.
Hold on, wait, wait.
Do Officer Walker go to that club on Stockton, - the one where the Western police party? - I seen his car there.
I got this one.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole And as much as I empathize, I can only tell you that there is a process for complaints like this one.
Don't sell us on process, Mr.
Mayor.
We've had years of this kind of treatment from city police.
You need to understand we view this as an affront to the cloth.
We've asked for a civilian review board for decades now.
Absent that, how can we trust any investigation of any complaint? Forgive me, gentlemen, but last I checked, the department had a black commissioner and a black IID director.
The problem is systemic.
And as to Commissioner Burrell, we understand that his authority is now limited.
Mr.
Mayor, when it comes to matters like this, do you expect us to have faith in Deputy Rawls? I expect you'll be good enough not to prejudge the department's response before the investigation even begins, as I won't prejudge it.
I can only tell you that I take this incident very seriously, and that I will pursue all of the facts.
Well, Mr.
Mayor, you said you would have an open door, and so far I credit you for keeping that promise.
And my door will always be open to you.
Thank you.
If they couldn't get civilian review out of a Royce administration, - how can they think they'll get it from me? - They're testing you to see how vulnerable you feel on the racial stuff.
On Burrell, too, for what it's worth.
Well, civilian review is a nonstarter.
You go now there now, you'll be bending over for four years for the ministers.
So what? I throw them a bone and fire some idiot cop? By pressing that, the average beat cop's gonna hate my guts, and I can't change anything without rank-and-file support.
You don't fire him, you're going to piss off most of the black political infrastructure.
Yummy.
My first bowl of shit.
Circle that right there.
And you press that right there.
It's work time.
You guys got work to do? You write down that data? - Yeah.
All right.
Charlene, what don't you understand? - None of it.
OK.
Let's see if we can find a way you can get it, OK? - What's the diameter? - Huh? It's seven.
Good.
OK, what's half of that? - You can't take half of it.
OK, let's say you have $10 and you gave half of it to Jasmine.
Why I do that? Well, just pretend, OK? - You give her half, how much does she have? - Duh! Five.
Good.
Now let's say this time you have $7, you give her half, how much does she have? - $3.
50.
Good, so Yo, Mr.
Prez, check this out.
Why we no pick him up at his casa, follow him from there? Why? So we can lose him here again? Papa, nothin' say he got to come back through this way, you know? - What if he take another road? - All right.
We pick him up from his casa tomorrow.
Poutin'.
Don't pout.
Omar, I'm tired of this, bro.
Lo siento, baby.
Lo siento.
Hey, now .
.
there she blow.
All right, then.
So we agree staring down a stick-up boy on a corner takes courage, and we agree it takes courage to go overnight to Cheltenham or Hickey.
This is a good list, but are there any examples we can make outside of being on a corner? I need a volunteer.
Not me.
What about you, Albert? No.
You volunteer and you don't know what for, you ain't got brains.
All right, then, I need a volunteer to stand on this box blindfolded, fall off, and let us catch him before he hits the ground.
Oh, shit! - Albert? - That's fucking stupid.
What about you, Namond? - Wait, wait, let me get this right.
So you want me to stand up on that box, put a blindfold on, fall, and expect these weak-ass clowns to catch me? Please.
Hell, no.
Hey, yo, y'all drop me, and we gonna have more than words.
A'ight.
All right, everybody gather round.
Oh, shit.
You ready? On three.
One, two, three.
Let him drop.
Whoa! Shit! Oh, that shit was right.
All right, who wants to go next? Albert? I ain't doing no stupid shit like that! Fuck you, and fuck all y'all bitches.
We don't like your ass anyway.
Settle down, settle down.
Yo, today's specials are those little Hershey bars, three for a dime.
And I got all your other favorites, too.
Yo, Deante, I got your liquorice red and black both.
Snitchin' Randy.
Well, I'll be blessed, yo.
Lookit.
This is good? We put him here? That tall man with Prop Joe? Yo, for real, on this caper the more we learn, the less we know.
We can go? - No, we stay.
Papa, I need to go.
I say we stay, Renaldo.
What's wrong, yo? - No no, I mean "go.
" Me voy a cagar encima, bro.
We been in the car too many hours.
Whether you squat in an alley or sittin' on a porcelain throne, don't really change the moment, now do it? Rough day? - Doesn't help to hold it in.
What the fuck you know? If you tell me, maybe we can help.
Ain't nothing.
Come on, Albert, you been doing real good in this class.
Real good till today.
Just give it a try.
I went home yesterday.
My mom's on the couch.
She dead.
Me-maw said best I come to school, but Oh Yeah, you wanted to be with your mom.
Of course you did.
Some of you know me from narcotics work, some from earlier if you worked the Western district, and some of you I'm meeting for the first time.
But the only point I'd really like to make here today is that this is a transitional time for this department and for the city as a whole.
We have a new mayor and a new state's attorney, and they both feel like they have a mandate for change.
The point is that given the mayor's position on crime and given the outcome of the election, we can expect certain enhancements.
Oh, really? Certain improvements may be forthcoming in the near future.
So we're looking for feedback here, some input as to what we need more of or less of to better work murders.
Better witness protection.
More proactive investigation.
Pay raise.
Yeah! - Better lab work.
More techs on duty.
More overtime.
More Scotch! More time for case prep.
Seriously.
More women.
Loose women.
Pay hike, double-digits.
Mo' better, mo' better, mo' better.
That's what we want.
Whoo, whoo, whoo! Sounds like a new day, don't it? Department's finally gonna get what it needs.
State's attorney's office, too.
A new day.
They make a nice couple, anyway.
Looking forward to working with you, Colonel.
That's signed by a now-inaugurated mayor ordering his police commanders to avoid mass arrests.
Community-based policing and high-end enforcements are to be emphasized.
I take it Burrell got a copy.
In person.
I don't see it.
Why not just fire the fucking asshole? - The mayor is weighing his options.
What the fuck does that mean? To fire Burrell, we're going to need more political capital than we have right now.
Speaking of which, it brings us to another little piece of business.
The thing with the minister.
It's a delicate situation.
The ministers are pressing for a civilian review, which the rank and file don't want to hear, but it speaks directly to the situation with Burrell.
If we expend capital defending this incident I get it.
You want the cop fired.
No, we're not saying that at all.
The mayor doesn't want to interfere with the everyday workings of the department.
But it's a balancing act.
Our response has to be smart and even-handed, in a racial sense, especially.
If I'm hearing you, it's about perception.
Exactly.
IID has a black commander, but he's beholden to Burrell.
He'll stir shit with this if he can.
The sergeant in question is assigned to CID.
His new commander is Daniels.
He's smart, he's black, and politically neutral.
That work for you? - Works for us.
Who that? I said, who's that? You home or you just visiting? Home if I can.
All right.
Get by the fire if you want.
I got a couple of dogs left.
You hungry? Shit weren't working out with Jo-Jo and them.
Said I owed him some cheddar on some shit some other boy did.
I don't want to make no noise on that.
They pressin' you.
You know Get with me, and we pay 'em right back, OK? No, all that shit you been sayin' to me goin' through my head.
Forget about all that.
If I wouldn't have pushed you off, you would have never ended on that corner.
But everything I do I be fucking up.
Whole time it feel like it wasn't me on that corner.
I just wanted to get away.
Well, you're here now, ain't you? Right? This is you, right here, right now, OK? - You're burning a hole in that shirt, man.
Fuck You fucked me all up when I saw you walking through the door, Sherrod.
Oh, shit.
What you think, huh? - You know, I get half price for this.
All right, but take your hat off, man.
Don't burn them pimp steaks, huh? Took long enough.
Yo, Dukie, you sure about this? I mean, I'm with y'all.
Y'all my boys like that.
Y'all there for me, I'm there for y'all.
I'm really starting to think this is some fucked-up shit.
I mean, Officer Walker's a shady motherfucker, but he's police.
We do it Michael's way, we send a message.
You ain't got to do what I got to do.
We drew straws, Na'.
Let's go.
This is everything? - Sergeant Hauk's statement, the ministers', statements of the other officers, it's all there.
No independent witnesses, huh? It's a lot of smoke, - but I'm not feeling much in the way of fire.
It was a strong case for discourtesy.
True.
But no indication of racial or religious overtones.
And the brutality allegation is a stretch.
I've gone over GOC-7.
I'm up to speed with the matrix, but since the buck stops with me on this one, walk me through my options.
Minor offenses, you can issue a summary judgment, a period of extra duty without pay, guidance and counseling, the like.
Or if Sergeant Hauk fights your decision, or if there's a more substantive charge, it goes downstairs to a trial board.
And possible termination? Let me ask you if the minister's connected, and if all eyes are on this one, what does command want to see happen? What does City Hall want to see happen? City Hall just wants someone to do the right thing, whatever that is.
You're sitting here, Deputy, telling me to just do the right thing? Doesn't happen often, I know.
Hey! What are you doing? Come here! You motherfucker, I'll get your little ass! Hey, hey, hey! Come on, show me hands, bitch.
Back the fuck up, little hopper, I'm police.
I know, you the police who like to fuck with a nigger.
Turn around.
Hey, hey, yo! You ain't gonna hear the next one.
Get on your knees, cross them legs, knit them hands, come on.
Hold on.
Yo, what the fuck you doing? What the fuck is wrong with you, man? Hey, give up that ring, man.
Come on.
Yeah.
Agh! Payback.
That's right.
Run, motherfuckers! Shit! I'm telling you, right there, this horse is a winner.
Look at it, OK? How you doing? - Hey.
Excuse me.
Mr.
Mayor.
On my way downtown today I saw an abandoned car.
Tow it right away.
Where is Mr.
Mayor, the location? Oh, fucking Christ.
Call Transpo! Get the fucking trucks moving! - Mr.
Mayor.
I got a constituent call.
She said the playground near her house was a hazard.
Rusted metal.
We'll get right on it.
The location? Sir, I need a location.
Mr.
Mayor, I understand your concern, but you've got to understand, we have more than 9, 100 hydrants.
And one of them's leaking.
Sensitivity counseling, two weeks' extra duty, no punishment past that.
They sliced it into the rough.
Does Daniels know the bind this puts his boy Carcetti in? Well, Wilson briefed Rawls, Rawls briefed Daniels.
It's Carcetti doing Pontius Pilate, putting it on Daniels, who was a safe choice as far as the rank and file goes.
But that won't be enough for the ministers, not by a long shot.
Am I the only one that knows how to play this game? Let's go, get that hydrant sealed.
Man, give me a hand with that.
Three of them with shotguns got me coming outside the club.
I made 'em for Bloods.
The paint's supposed to be some kind of declaration of war.
Sounds like we get to stomp some ass.
The Western District way.
Yellow paint a declaration of war? That's a new one.
So what I heard was that these wild-ass boys, I ain't saying no namesbut they past crazy.
They robbed him.
They threw paint on his ass, yellow paint.
Shit, I ain't lying.
Well, I don't know about that, but you showed me something, getting on that box like that.
That wasn't nothing.
No, don't sell yourself short.
Ms.
Duquette, Mr.
Parenti, we all thought it took courage, especially considering how y'all do each other.
You think? Yeah.
No, look, you're showing a lot of progress in class.
You know that, don't you? You know, you're doing the work.
You're not acting out.
It's getting to the point where you can go back to regular class, no problem.
Back to genpop? - Mm-hm.
You want me to go? - Well, if you're ready.
I ain't going back there.
Why not? Shit they teach there be deadly.
But I know you know that, Bunny.
All right, all right! All right, all right! We can squeeze a little money from here and there but nothing on the scale for what you're asking.
Maybe free up some operating money by shifting some of these PAYGO projects into the capital program.
I can steal a little from the budget stabilization fund, but we still got to absorb 120 grant positions in the police department, mostly officers.
Christ, don't let those go unfunded.
A lot of balls in the air, and I still haven't seen the schools' budget.
What about the revenue surplus? - As I said, that's one-time money.
If I'm going to give the police a 5% raise, that's forever.
If I'm going to ask the police department to get up and fight I got to throw some money.
You're telling me how I can't do it, not how I can.
There's the rainy day fund, but you really shouldn't draw that down.
The bond rating houses want at least 5% of the budget in reserve.
Feels like a rainy day to me.
Cloudy like a motherfucker.
Yo, yo, wait up, yo.
Fuck is up with y'all? - Ain't you Mike? We wanna have a word with your boy here.
Ain't nothing stopping you.
Talk.
You know what we mean.
Yo, the little bitch was talking to the police.
That's a lie.
I ain't been doin' no snitching.
The fuck you ain't.
He look like he about to pee on hisself now.
You ain't gonna stand by no rat motherfucker, is you? Naw, I ain't standing with no rat.
These here be them 18-hour junks.
Go to bed, wake up, still be hot.
Man, I feel this one from three hours ago.
See what I'm saying? Two for one.
Each pack come with two pads.
Buy five, I give you six.
Gimme six then.
Five.
Keep toasty.
Obliged, sir, obliged.
Take this side, I'll take this side.
Bubbles Depot.
Bubbles Depot got what you need.
Back on the scene.
Come see me.
Oh, looky, looky Hey, Sherrod! Whoo-ooh.
What up? Car must've hit it or some shit.
How much you think? - Aluminum? Aluminum about 30-40 cent a pound.
We've got a Benjamin here easy, baby.
Yeah.
Teamwork payin' off today, ain't it? - Yeah.
Go get the heavy side.
Let me try it.
Get out of the way! That's enough! Get out of here! That's enough! Break it up! Hey, Randy, you bitch.
We ain't even done with your snitchin' ass.
Come on, man.
Guess them books are good for something.
Somebody call the nurse.
Yo, why they bank me? - I ain't no snitch.
Randy, Randy, it's OK.
Thanks a lot.
Health Department shut Chicken George again? I had to duck in here for cover.
Your boys are off the hook today.
Not a good day to be cross-eyed in West Baltimore.
What, y'all behind on your quotas or some shit? What the fuck? Seems one of my side got jumped last night.
Yeah, Walker.
I heard about that shit.
Threw paint on him.
Walker's an asshole.
Hey, you play in dirt, you get dirty.
Go ahead, KGA.
Report of a burglary, 19 North Monroe.
Copy.
We should do this again.
Don't go making any furtive moves.
No doubt.
Don't break a pencil point.
Mr.
P, I swear I only told the police what everybody know.
Does that make me a snitch, Michael? - Shouldn't oughta told nobody nothing.
But that don't make you a snitch, not if you ain't put nobody in.
Jesus.
I should have stopped this.
It ain't your fault, Mr.
P.
All this come up because of what Tiffany said happened in the bathroom.
What did you tell them, Randy? What do they know? I just told them about Lex going up to the playground behind Fulton, and how everybody said he got killed and put in one of them boarded-up houses.
That's all you told them? I mean, they wanted me to say that I was there, but I just told them that Little Kevin told me.
Little Kevin? - He killed, too.
I mean, Marlo got him, too.
That's what everybody saying, anyway.
Marlo Stanfield? I heard Kevin got locked up just last week, now he's supposed to be up in a house somewhere.
They put him in a vacant, too, huh? OK, Randy, for now I want to say Michael's right.
If anyone tries to talk to you again, say nothing to anyone, understand? Will that make it better? So in sum, gentlemen, the gods have spoken.
No longer do we live and die by stats.
From this day forward we are about quality arrests felonies, serious misdemeanors, the back-to-basics police work of our sainted fathers.
Still, the truth is it would be easier to turn an oil tanker around in a puddle.
Our people were raised on stats.
If you can't bend patrol to the mission, Eugene, I'll damn sure find someone who can.
Gentlemen.
Sir.
Along the line of what you propose, I'd like to reconstitute the Major Crimes Unit, bring it under the umbrella of Homicide.
And let me guess, you'd like to shake up the personnel.
Where appropriate.
Go for it, Colonel.
What? Smart move, accepting any ideas whatsoever come from the anointed fella.
Daniels.
The next commissioner.
Any cocksucker that manages to go from lieutenant to full bird in a little more than a year is getting groomed.
Wait.
You didn't for a minute think that Jesus, Bill, it's Baltimore.
You ain't one of the natives, are ya? You see where they went? El gordo and tall man, they go in a big room, first floor.
Sign outside say "New Day Coop.
" - Coop? - What's a coop? - "New Day Coop.
" That's what it say.
Hey, yo, was there like a bar between the two O's? S.
Yeah, that's co-op.
Prop Joe in a co-op? Joe go in with the man we robbed.
Remember, he fell down on his knees, wept like a little baby.
Yeah, Fat Face Ricky.
Anybody else? S.
Eight or nine others I never see before, but all the same to me, you know? Prop Joe done sat down to the table.
Oh, do tell.
The worm done came full circle.
If that is what I think it is, our little clutch of chickens might be putting all their eggs up in one basket.
Is good? Muy bueno, babe.
I know one thing I wouldn't walk around with it on my neck for Walker to find.
He ain't gonna find it.
You crazy even taking a chance.
If he catch you with it, he gonna break more than them fingers.
Man, what up with you? It's like lately you gone all like taking off the mask, yo.
What up with that? If Walker got a look - He didn't.
What about the thing with you and Randy? Everybody is sayin' you threw down with him.
Busted up the boy Dimples, and them.
Yo, you wouldn't have stood tall? - That's not what I'm saying.
It's not that you do shit, it's how you do it.
Yo, look, I'm not trying to stand around and let no chump-ass niggers think I'm shook.
I ain't.
And? - And I want you to sign up.
Colonel, there's the matter of You find yourself incompatible with a certain lieutenant? Detective Freamon, you have carte blanche in picking your squad.
In fact, you can pick your supervisor for all I care.
Motherfucker, as far as I'm concerned, you are the Major Crimes Unit.
It's morning in Baltimore, Lester.
Wake up and smell the coffee.
Reinforcements? Carver.
Damn, boy, what brings you back to the plantation? I trusted you.
Trusted Daniels.
My fucking mistake, huh? - Hold up.
What's wrong? - The kid you were supposed to protect, you put his name on the street.
They were beating him in front of the school today, stomping on him for snitching.
Jesus.
He all right? - It's always the same.
I should have fucking seen this coming.
I swear to you, I don't know what happened.
I hooked the kid into Bunk Moreland and Herc.
I can't believe - Where's the kid now? - Home.
Let me go give this to the night commander.
We'll park a plain-clothes unit on the house.
You think that makes it better? We'll be discreet, set up down the block or some shit.
Come on inside.
I swear to you I'm gonna find out what happened.
Ed Bowers.
Pleasure to meet you.
You surprised us all.
Congratulations, Mr.
Mayor.
Thanks.
I'd like to introduce you to Dorothy.
Hi.
You heard about Ed Nully? I've heard great things about what you're doing, so keep it up.
I'm delighted you made it, Mr.
Mayor.
Well, it's for a good cause, right? I am getting the evil eye, however.
I gotta keep him circulating.
OK.
This way.
Here we go.
See you later.
Take care.
The Washington crowd is driving the local real estate market now, and if the harbor promenade could extend to the south branch - We're looking at that.
Should be.
Everything from here to Hanover Street is money.
Mr.
Mayor, play a little poker? - I'm not very lucky.
Luck can change.
Mr.
Mayor, I'd like you to meet Ray Chandler.
Pleasure to meet you.
Boy, either you gonna do it, or I'm gonna.
There's a reason the police keep jumping out on you, Na'.
So, was it the Bunk's cologne, huh? Ohpussy.
I'm gonna miss you, too, bitch.
Lester do love listening to other people's phone calls, don't you? A bit of a pervert that way.
You could use a wiretap case or two, broaden your horizons.
Oh, no, no.
The Bunk is strictly a suit-and-tie motherfucker.
At all hazards, a man must keep up appearances.
Dignity, I say.
Dignity above all, Governor.
Hear, hear! - Bunk, you got a minute? - What's up? - The Wagstaff kid I sent your way.
Wagstaff? He one of mine? Yeah, you were looking for the boy Lex, shot someone outside a nightclub a couple or three months back.
This kid knew about Lex getting killed.
Herc brought him to you.
Herc? This kid is a witness, and Herc was supposed to bring him to me? - That was the plan.
I'm gonna skin that motherfucker.
Jesus, Herc.
The fuck did you do? Something happen to that boy? - Well, young man, your wish has come true.
So I can finally get out of here? Yes, Monnel, paperwork was slow coming in from North Avenue, but you five are at the age where we feel it's to your advantage to join your peers in the ninth grade.
Yo, we in high school! - When we bump? - The end of this marking period.
Congratulations.
You're excused.
Mr.
Johnson, you have a visitor in the front office.
Mr.
Johnson, please come down to the front office.
Bad news? - Plenty more to go around.
They pulled the pin on your program.
As I've been saying this week at every roll call in every damn district, if I could scrape together any more, I would.
But for starters, it's a 5% salary year, and that's a given.
I know it's not half what you deserve, but if the revenue estimates stay good, I promise you'll be seeing more.
Mr.
Mayor, my wife thanks you, my children thank you, my dog thanks you.
Santy, how you able to tell your wife from your mutt? His wife, she's the one that's got the fleas.
Shit, Bobby, with your old lady, fleas would be an improvement.
At ease.
We got the mayor here, gentlemen.
When they sit in one place too long they get a little feisty.
I'm not going to pretend to know how to do your job.
I don't.
But what I can tell you is that during the past few weeks I have spoken with many of your peers, with your union reps, with the representatives of the FOP, and the biggest single complaint I'm hearing concerns the department's obsession with stats.
The fucking numbers game.
Well, under my watch the numbers game is over.
You will no longer be under the gun to meet monthly quotas of ineffective, meaningless arrests and citations.
Thank you.
Excuse me, Your Worship.
You're not the first person who's stood at the podium making promises.
Jimmy, I'm sure the mayor has some pressing business.
No, I'm just saying, the first community activist who pitches a bitch about the corner activity in her neighborhood, aren't we gonna go right back to rounding up bodies? Well, we need to educate our citizens to the new approach.
They're not the only ones who need educating.
We got bosses that wouldn't know police work if it bit 'em in the ass.
They been juking stats for years, and they'll do it again once the neighborhoods complain.
It's all they know.
Well, if the old dogs can't get the job done, I'll find new ones who can.
Look, for years I sat on the back bench of the council and watched our city deteriorate.
It was business as usual with the same old ideas producing the same old results.
Well, I'm here now, as you are, and I'm asking you to put aside your reservations and give it a go.
All told.
You did good.
You got 'em pumped.
They love you.
Of course, the wrong decision on Sergeant Hauk, and who knows? Carv said the kid had something on it.
I talked to him.
He had nothing, just a bunch of hearsay and some shit about zombies.
The boy was to come to me.
You know the goddamn GO it's Homicide's call.
You don't go putting your paws in my murder, you simple fuck.
Hey! You're talking to a sergeant.
Oh, fuck your fucking stripes! Take it easy, Bunk.
Now, Herc is trying to help us here.
Man, he messed in my murder, he pays.
Give him a chance.
We can work something out.
That's easy for you to say.
You ain't the primary on this.
Motherfucker - What got into him? - He's emotional.
He's been working this case for a long time.
So the thing right now is for you to remember everything you did on this case from the beginning.
He's out there, hat in hand literally.
Well, he can wait till hell freezes over.
A wise man does not burn his bridges until he first knows he can part the waters.
Old Ashanti saying.
Norman, you grew up in Catonsville.
Show the motherfucker in.
Mr.
Mayor, I don't want to take time out of your busy schedule.
Look, if this is about me countermanding your orders for more arrests No, sir.
You should proceed as you feel the situation warrants.
Overall, policing strategies may not be my strongest suit.
I'm here about what I do know.
A recommendation from Sergeant Hauk's commander will cross your desk tomorrow.
Colonel Daniels, with Rawls concurring, recommends sensitivity training.
It may be a fair decision, it may even be the right decision.
But we both know it won't fly with the ministers, not even with Daniels behind it.
regulations, directives, orders.
You fire a white police for a bad car stop on a black minister, you'll lose the rank and file.
It's not cause enough.
But if a commander can't find the grounds for firing a saint in here The man has worked Narcotics for six years, and in Narcotics there are no virgins.
And herein lies your expertize? I've always been comfortable delegating strategic elements.
It's what the Deputy Ops is for.
Me, I know what a mayor needs.
It was a Chevy Tahoe.
License Mike-460-654.
And I searched it good, figuring I'd find some iron, but How'd they react? Chris and Snoop? They didn't do shit.
Was there anything in the car? Registration and crap in the glove box, empty chicken boxes, trash.
They had one of those plastic milk crates in the back with some tools in it.
What kind of tools? - I don't know, carpenter tools.
Did you check the crate for weapons? - Nail gun.
Nail gun? - Yeah, one of them bitches that shoots nails.
They rig it to shoot rounds maybe? - Nah, I shot it.
A nail came out.
Lester, seriously, is any of this helping? - You're doing good.
Tell me about jacking Marlo at the train station.
I'm short four, right? - Yeah, I remember your ass.
Here's my four.
You like that? - OK! - I'm gonna beat your ass.
OK, no more! Stop, stop.
Take the money.
Take the money.
Stop.
Make me work this hard again, I'm gonna skin one of y'all! OK.
Just go, man.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, man.
You know who got the fattest asses and the best pussy? - Who that? - Midgets, nigger.
They're all that, you know what I'm saying? The fuck happened to our boy on the door? Siesta, Papa.
You fix this, Joe? - What's the problem? - Ran out of time.
Now, Joe, you've been so busy being devious, you done messed around and got yourself caught up in a web.
Omar, I don't know what you been hearing, now Joe, ain't no time for no lies now.
Now see, I need you to be straight, just like you did on that New Day Co-op sit down.
Oh, yeah, I know about that.
I know you the one got Marlo up in this mess too.
Hey, Omar, take a deep breath.
A proposition might fall kindly on your ear.
Well, tickle my fancy, fat man.
Money, drugs your call.
Come on, Joe, you can do better than that.
Hey, we coming at this all wrong.
See, you the one with the high card.
You should speak your mind.
You going to serve up Marlo.
You gonna take out Marlo Stanfield? No no, but I got a real powerful urge to take everything he own, and I'm quite confident you the man can make that happen.
That might take some doing.
Naw, naw, see, we got to have it simple.
See, Omar like it simple.
So how we gonna do this, yo? Huh? My sister's boy.
He do the drop.
We call you and give up the spot.
That simple enough? - That's what it is.
See now, Joe, I need you to resist your natural inclination to do anything twisted up in this here play, you feel me? I even catch a whiff of you doing something foul, Joe, I mean, I might got to go tell Marlo you the one put me up on that card game.
We understood? Now go ahead and write my ticket so I can tip on out.
Come on now.
Gentlemen.
I'll see to Tremaine.
You can't be serious.
Was you listening? Omar to one side holding a spade, and maybe Marlo to the other with a shovel.
And just at this moment, I managed to crawl out my own damn grave.
No way do I crawl back in.
What the fuck was you doing out here, man? You trust him? - I trust his fear.
Now we go? Not till I teach Prop Joe a thing or two about devious.
We on him now.
Sorry, guys, that's all I got to say.
Talk to the mom.
I hear you, but we just came from his foster mother's house, and she said it was you that told him not to talk.
She said you told her to get a lawyer.
That's right.
All right, look, something got messed up.
We know that, but whatever else happened, we got a murder here.
Even if it's off the record, it would help us just to talk to the boy.
If you understand what happened here, you know I'm not gonna do that.
If you go at it like that, then you end up siding with the motherfuckers doing the dirt.
No, I'm siding with my kids.
You're right.
You're right.
For you, the kids come first.
We'll find another road.
Well, glad this is working out for you.
Oh, man, you two makin' me all weepy and shit.
Be safe, guys.
All right.
Hey, Roland, man, you know, I hate coming all this way and not getting a little something you know, for old times' sake? The playground behind Fulton and Monroe, unit block.
He told this fella Lex to meet a girl there.
That's all he did.
What's up, shorty? Can you give me three? Bitch, get the fuck across the street and plant your ass on a stoop.
Kenard! Yo, how you think I'd look with no tail on my head? - Do I look like a faggy? - Yo, Na'.
Yo, Mrs.
Lee, you looking for Michael? Namond, I don't want to be no trouble to you, but I got this friend who been ailing, you know, and she gave me $6.
So I was hoping you could, you know Yeah, we cover her.
Go see my man.
The fuck you do that for? - It's Michael's moms, yo.
Shit, she a fucking dope fiend.
Namond said I could.
Na'? - Naw, it's cool.
Gimme a Yellow Bird.
All right, but you ain't got to be all up on me.
I know, I know! I'm late, you know? Sometimes it's just too much damn fun being in charge.
Where you been, boss? - Announcing my presence with authority.
Sorry I'm late.
Please sit down.
Sit.
Sir, we scarfed up 52 vehicles.
Good.
But you missed my car.
We have new equipment at school 45, school 52, and school 58 installed.
Well, I got no calls on those, but keep at it.
You'll get there, I'm sure.
Mr.
Mayor, all hydrants are fully capped as of today, and Solid Waste has pulled 32 tons of trash from the alleys, - and, sir, that's a single-day record.
That's what I want to hear.
Thank you, gentlemen, and keep up the good work.
Finance, of course, doesn't deal with the dirt-under-the-nails tangibles, unless you consider the money itself to be dirty.
So what's on your agenda today? - The school audit.
Well, how bad could that be? The system is running a $54 million deficit.
Yes, Mr.
Mayor.
Jesus Christ.
Did Royce know this? How the fuck do we deal with that? Frankly, I'm not sure just yet.
Our attendance is excellent, and as to suspensions, we don't have any.
We intervene immediately, and we show success in stabilizing behavior.
And good we're doing for classes these kids were wrecking before the program.
In January, we could expand to four classes, cover the whole eighth grade.
Any complaints about the tracking, anything from the parents? Not a one.
This isn't a group where we see a lot of parental intervention.
What about test scores? - I can't speak to the program itself, but it has to help the rest of the eighth grade.
Next week will tell.
Right now the system is under a lot of scrutiny.
We have certain fiscal issues that are of great concern to the new administration, and what you're proposing here is a radical shift in curricula.
Meaning? - If City Hall were to sign off on this, we could go forward, but now is not the time to rock any boats.
Hear that? That's my joint right there.
So you all got your work up to date, right? Yeah, yeah.
I heard you took care of your puppy's problems.
Oh, he most definitely made that go away, you hear me? It's all good.
You know, some of the young 'uns been saying your pup stood tall with a snitchin' boy.
Michael? - Yeah, that's what they saying.
Yeah.
Lester, you really starting to scare me, man.
Need a crowbar.
For what? This is a tomb.
Lex is in there.
Fuck me.

Oh, man! Fuck.
Fuck.
What's next? - One to the head.
I keep it quick.
Not yet, motherfucker.
You shoot live rounds like paint, boy, you'll be the shit, you hear? These really do look like Glocks.
They make them look that way.
Yo, why you shoot low? All right, if you're close, aim for the head.
If not, think vest.
That's the way you said it.
A'ight.
Boy's learning.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole - Keep him in the hole - In the hole - Down in the hole - Down in the hole - Keep him in the hole - Keep him in the - Down in the hole - Down in the hole - Keep him in the hole - Keep him in the - Down in the hole - Down in the hole - You going inside this one? - I'll do the whole block.
It's bad enough you popped the top off one house and gave us a body.
What the fuck do you think you're doing now? - An experiment.
An experiment? Fuck me.
I'm dealing with Madam Curie here.
This nail here comes from a nail gun, and from the house with a dead man inside.
Every other house has screws that HCD uses.
We find these in the plywood anywhere in this city, and there's a body inside.
Gosh, that's good work.
No, I'm very impressed.
Do you see a tool belt on me? Do I look like those fucking jerkoffs in the Home fuckin' Depot? There's three weeks left in the year, and our unit clearance rate is under 50%.
We do not go looking for bodies, especially moldering fucking John Does.
We do not put red up on the board voluntarily.
Jay, the bodies are in the houses, Marlo Stanfield's bodies.
Then they belong to him.
Now I realize you're no longer in my squad, Mr.
Major Crimes, but you're still part of CID, right? And look, I'm still a sergeant, right? And I'm giving you an order on this, Lester.
Until I feel chain-of-command down on this and until you hear otherwise, you will not, I repeat not, pull down any morefucking wood! Let it go, man.
I expect a shortfall when I look at the school budget.
It's a natural.
But how in Christ's name do you lose $54 million? One million at a time.
It didn't happen this morning.
This was on Royce's watch.
You didn't get a whiff of this during council review? You can't blame the council or Royce.
The responsibility is with the school board.
But the council has oversight.
Don't even pretend to put this shit on me.
Only the city share shows up on our budget review.
We never see state money.
Tell your pretty new chief of staff that what happens on North Avenue is on the school system.
That's a simplistic view.
How would you complicate it? I'll argue this is a bookkeeping issue.
We've been rolling the debt over since '99.
You rolled it and rolled it until it ran out of cash.
That's not bookkeeping, that's stupidity.
Are we talking about waste? Fraud? Embezzlement? Although the system has some poor accounting practices, in the end we'll find that most of the money was properly spent on programing.
OK.
We get it.
No one's responsible, not the school board, not North Avenue, not Royce, not the city council, no one at this table.
Fine.
So what's our next move? Bump the property tax rate? Scale back our budget.
No pay hikes, hiring freezes, reduce services, tell everyone, schools, police, fire, public works, they have to hold the line.
How? I just ran a "Clean up the streets" campaign.
I just got done promising the world to every cop in the city.
Annapolis.
You go beg his Republican ass.
The Cheese stands alone.
This the drop? I hope not, 'cause they ain't called yet.
Make me feel bad toward old Prop Joe.
Go around where we can see y'all.
Vmonos, Renaldo.
Nice hookup.
Private.
Damn, y'all some Semper Fi motherfuckers? Where Cheese go to enlist? That's 25 back to Joe from what we was short, and another 150 to up our order to six.
Whoa, we had you down for four.
I don't know if we got extras coming.
Short someone else then.
I'll see what Joe says.
Yeah.
When we set with the re-up, we'll hit you on that.
The shit will be where you told us.
Yo, we ain't using these no more.
Us neither.
We ring you from a 958 exchange, East Side, don't need to answer.
Just toss it, go to the meet.
See you when I see you.
Money on the table, her-oine to follow.
Stay here on Marlo? - Nah, we gonna stay with Cheese.
Detective, would you get the door for me? Sometimes life just gives you a moment, huh? He was gonna do me, and instead he gets done? I'm dipped in shit here.
I'm the luckiest motherfucker you know.
Gentlemen, the target is still Mr.
Stanfield, and we're no closer to him than when I left here two months ago.
Now they might not let me go after murders, but they cannot stop me from chasing the drugs.
Leander, I want you to see if they're still on cellphones.
How are you with the paper trail? - OK.
I want you pulling paper on all the purchases on the West Side over 100,000.
Then get down to MVA and check luxury cars in his name, all right? This boy has been in the game for a while.
He might try to launder money.
Herc, I want you on the paperwork re-requisitioning the wiretap equipment that Marimow shipped to ISD.
We're gonna need all of that to get back up, OK? If anyone needs me, I'm down at Missing Persons, all right? Let's go.
Lester? - Yes? All this is cool .
.
but can we do it so that the direction comes from me? I mean, I am the sergeant here.
Donut, you think this look right? Why you knock 'em down? So the police won't scope me so easy.
But now all they gotta do is be like, "Yeah, go over there "and grab that little nigger with the braids.
" Damn, you later than a motherfucker.
Been sittin' here watching money walk away.
You about to have the day off.
Package was stolen, Na'.
What? - Out of your basement? - They kicked my motherfucking door in.
How the police know where you even be keeping your stash at? Some snitch-ass bitch, that's how.
I'm-a find his ass too.
All right, man, I'm out.
I never understood why you stopped eating pig.
I ain't been in a Polack Johnny's since 1974, and if you knew what was good for you I know what's good.
I remember when you did.
I never saw you going all Muslim on me.
I believe that other faiths have the pig figured better than us AMEs.
If you checking out, I might feel the need to say a few words.
I ain't got nothing to do with that.
I love my PJs but they do repeat on me.
You got to go with the original sauce, not the kraut and chili like you do.
My pain ain't about no sauerkraut.
They wants to clip any program that ain't tied to the statewide tests.
Thing is, we're just starting to make a little headway.
You take it upstairs? Me and the professor took it to the superintendent.
And? - You read the papers? They got $50 million in the hole, and they're scared to take any problems to the new mayor.
Is your thing a problem? - A cover-your-ass person might say we're just dragging in students who can't hack regular classes, getting 'em work to dose you up on those statewide tests.
If City Hall say it's OK, we keep it, if not, we on the street.
Odell Watkins.
I was hoping you'd say that name.
Yeah, he got Carcetti's ear.
If we sell him, maybe we sell the Hall.
Stalk the nigger that stole your shit.
Yeah.
Soon as he nod out, bust him in the head with a brick or some shit.
Nah.
That ain't me.
You can always give him a hotshot.
Y'all recall Junior Bunk? Cutting his shit with, what d'you call it? Stole it from the funeral home.
You thinking formaldehyde.
That's the shit.
Niggers got a taste for that shit, university started a "Junior Bunk" ward.
My cousin laid his ignorant ass up there three times.
Ain't no guaranteein' that.
Use some rat poison.
No, that stuff don't cook up right.
What you need to use is that sodium cyanide.
That shit looks and cooks just like the real thing.
Where I find that? - Try Minter's over there by the tracks, or a metal shop where they do plating.
How much I need? - It ain't gonna take much.
A vial of that shit'd kill every horse here.
That's all there is to it? - It ain't no thing to kill a nigger who's already about the business of killing himself.
And the police, they ain't gonna pay no mind.
You the one got to live with it.
More young males than I'd have thought.
I don't suppose they all went off in search of adventure.
You get a chance to do any street work on these files? Shit, no.
They cut Missing Persons to one detective five years ago.
I barely keep up with the paperwork.
Feel free.
Just make copies and return the originals for the files.
For the files Right.
Damn, son.
Kenard said the police took it? He said they kicked his door in.
And they ain't locked no one up? Yo, you see that door? Were the hinges broke? I mean, if he said they put the boot to it them hinges gotta be hanging free.
I sweated him, yo.
He wasn't trying to scheme me.
That little motherfucker took that shit for himself.
Bet it.
And now you gotta step to him, put something real behind them words.
Where your Spanish boy at? He's with Cheese while I round up soldiers.
You got soldiers right here.
Your 2255 must have pleased some judge.
Enough to get me home, didn't it? I know they soldiers but I'm thinking about being more subtle.
They don't see me coming.
It ain't like you to work with strangers.
I'm celebrating diversity.
I'm thinking now the time to start doing that.
Oh-ho! - What up, shorty? - What's up, baby? Mmm.
You looking good.
I'm maintaining.
That's right.
You all right? Yeah.
Long time, long time.
I got your word.
Some real money to be made, huh? You remember how to do this? I reckon it'll come back to me.
See that's what I'm talking about, Butch.
Subtle.
Glasses first, so they don't spot.
Yes, ma'am.
Hello.
Mr.
Prezbo.
Come in, please.
That's OK.
I just wanted to stop by on my way home and drop off Randy's work for next week.
Hopefully this thing will be over soon.
Maybe so, but we're looking at the possibility of moving him to Booker T.
Washington.
I hope that isn't necessary.
I hope so too.
Thanks for bringing this.
I'll try to keep him up to speed.
Hang in there, kiddo.
Thanks.
Long conference call.
About an hour so far by my watch.
Got me out here riding the wood.
The governor's phone call has gone longer than anticipated.
Can I get you anything? Coffee? - Look, I have other appointments.
It shouldn't be much longer.
Check out Fisher's column in Metro.
He says, the governor thinks, quote, "This latest fiscal emergency calls into question "the Baltimore school system's ability to manage itself "as well as the local oversight of the system," unquote.
Motherfucker.
He's playing to the DC suburbs.
He sees you coming for him two years from now.
He ain't no fool.
There's all your electronic requisitions.
Mm-hm.
What one's that, a cop? Nah, security guard.
I don't think he's one of Marlo's, though.
Lieutenant.
Will someone explain what the fuck the brass is doing? First I get bounced to telephone reporting, then I get a call - How's that beach house? - Almost done.
I just That's great, just great.
Welcome.
Welcome back.
Who the fuck is that? That, Sergeant Hauk, is one of the most effective supervisors in our police department.
Sorry.
It's just taking a little longer than we expected.
It shouldn't be much longer, though.
I understand what you're saying.
Some of them are ready for high school but not Duquan.
I've - Adopted him? I've noticed Duquan this semester.
He's more nourished, wears fresher clothes.
Sometimes he even smells like soap.
You and your wife, you don't have children, do you? - Not yet, no.
Well, have some.
They're yours for life.
The kids in this school aren't yours.
You do your piece with them, and you let them go.
Because there'll be plenty more coming up behind Duquan, and they're gonna need your help too.
You've got your third period in five minutes, right? Settle down.
We need to concentrate on these tests.
Fuck this.
"If Jane's father gives Jane one week's worth of allowance" Shit, I ain't got no allowance where I stay at.
No father, neither.
How many sides a sexagon got? Why I care about that? You take the test so you can move on.
I ain't moving nowhere but out this motherfucker.
All right.
Let's settle down.
Let's start with question number one.
Settle down! All right, listen up.
Here's the problem.
Two couples go into a restaurant When they say "couples" do they mean they married? - Why they got to be married? - Mr.
Prezbo, why you get married? Well, to build a life together, for one.
You know, family.
Also to have intimacy.
What do that mean? - Mean, like, getting some.
No.
It's not just that.
Intimacy can be a quiet conversation.
Or it can be fun, you know? Like when you tickle your partner.
Yo, tickle my nuts.
All right, no more of that.
Come on, let's get to the test material.
Oh! The statewide exam is next week.
Then we'll get back to regular lessons.
Can we talk about intimacy? If you like, and if I don't get too embarrassed.
All rightso, the grand total on the check is $67.
40, but if they want to leave a tip Look at your sample test, please.
Ms.
Duquette, it feel like y'all schemed us.
This class is the same as the ones down the hall.
'Cause the test's coming up.
Let's look at the sample math test.
In sample "A" Kid's right.
This is bullshit.
The test doesn't speak to their world.
Don't speak too loud to mine, either.
An estimate, Detective.
We start opening those houses, we might turn over a couple of dozen bodies, - but that's just me guessing.
All homicides? The boy took over half the West Side.
We never saw the violence.
This right here is the reason why.
You're asking us to call out half of Public Works, pull the plywood off thousands of vacant houses all so we can raise the city's murder rate by ten percent? What else are we doing on Stanfield? I'm trying to get back up on his people's cellphones as fast as I can.
And I started to look for his money.
But if I'm right about this, they have to be worked.
Is there any evidence to link these missing persons reports to the Stanfield organization? I'm starting on that.
The one body that we pulled out of the Fulton Avenue house is Lex.
His case is a direct tie.
And there are two other names on the reports that show up in our wiretaps from earlier this year.
So, yes, there are links, Counselor.
By any chance, did Landsman run this up the chain to you guys? No.
Your call.
My office won't care until they see case files.
I'll run it upstairs and we'll see what comes.
I get it.
He's still tied up, but it really should only be a little while longer.
Tell the governor I have to go back to Baltimore.
I have a little bit of business today.
I'm the mayor of a major city.
How much shit do I have to eat from this guy? - Wouldn't you play the politics too? - It's not like the state had no role.
The state money for those schools had no oversight.
But I'm not telling The Washington fucking Post how he might be forced to bail me out because what was the quote again? Because "Those are my children in Baltimore too.
" He's gonna bleed me for that money.
Mayor Carcetti? The governor's office says he's ready to see you now.
We won't go until we get some Did I do something wrong? I ain't acted up or nothing.
You're ready for this.
You can do the work.
I know you can.
And if you need to come back here and use the showers or give me laundry, use the computer, you can do that any time.
Anyway, let me show you.
This here the way to the hard drive.
This isn't necessary, Duquan.
Just in case I'm busy, Mr.
P.
So you know how to work it.
Hey, boy.
What's up? Big day for you.
See here? I got the inventory divided between us.
You gonna go up one way toward North Avenue and I'm gonna stay down by the highway.
You gonna let me handle the money? - You ready, ain't you? - Yeah, I'm good.
All right.
Let's get on it.
I'll see you back here tonight.
A'ight.
You see that foul motherfucker, you let him have his money, OK? - I don't need you messin' with him.
A'ight.
All right.
Make sure that count's right! Yo, I need to talk to the little motherfucker.
Maybe you can do that with me, see it don't get out of hand.
Hey! Yo, Mike! Yo, what up, Duke? I heard Randy foster ma gonna take him out of Tilghman too.
Send him somewhere else.
That's messed up, man.
All right, holler, man.
How many? Detective Freamon believes there could be additional bodies in the vacants, - maybe a dozen or more.
He believes? Lester Freamon is not in the habit of selling wolf tickets.
I for one would not bet against him.
And what do you suggest I do with this information? My feeling is that City Hall should be brought into the loop.
We pull the bodies now and the stats go to Royce's last year in office.
It gives Carcetti an advantage with next year's crime rate.
You mean - Tell the mayor to do it now not next year, when it's on his watch and he has to eat the stats.
Colonel, I see you've thought this through, politically, I mean.
I'm learning as I go.
I bet you fuckin' are.
Colonel, keep this conversation close.
That's a direct order.
You seen them girls at Douglass, man? Yo, you right, Duke.
Ain't gonna be like middle school no more.
You know, I'm just thinking, yo.
Dag, man, not again.
Where your people at now? Need any of your stuff from the pile? It ain't no thing.
Yo, man, listen.
Me and Bug got our own spot now, so you could come crib with us if you want.
What you mean, Kenard took the stash? And he still walking around? I'm gonna talk to him, make sure this never happen again.
Look at me, boy.
Kenard got to feel some pain for what he did.
He got to.
I don't - You don't what, motherfucker? This how you pay me back for all the love I show? Shit, I been kept you in Nikes since you were in diapers.
I'm trying.
You trying, huh? That's what you gonna tell your father the next time you see him? That you tryin'? - Or you gonna tell him what you've done? - What he done got him locked up That's right.
Wee-Bey walked in Jessup a man, and he gonna walk out one.
But you out here, wearing his name, acting a bitch! Look at you, crying now.
Fuck you think you going? Get your ass back here.
I ain't done talking to you.
I'm police, right? Murder police, and I got bodies.
I'm just supposed to let them lie? "We don't throw red up on that board voluntarily.
" That John-Goodman-off-his-diet-looking motherfucker was clear on that.
So go over Landsman's head.
Jimmy, that's you.
Send an anonymous fax.
But Lester here don't fancy boats.
And I get sick just filling the bathtub.
It's just wrong.
Yeah.
Just like J-Lo with that little itty-bitty Spanish dude.
Genius.
He hid his mausoleum in the neighborhood.
How little Pedro gonna fill that big thing? Man, that girl got a prime cut of ass, boy.
A good heart.
A good inverted heart.
This nail's like their signature.
Find it in any door in the West Side, and right as rain, you're gonna find a body.
Yes, sir.
I'm proud to be chasing Mr.
Marlo Stanfield.
You act like you on the trail of Pol Pot or some shit.
Who? - Motherfucker, I got $10 says we can leave here right now, go to any boarded-up house with a nail like that in the door, and we will find a body.
Make it 20.
There you go.
First let's have another little taste.
Jimmy? - No, I'm good.
Come on, man.
Take that skirt off and have a drink.
Drink that.
Man, don't play like that.
Oh.
Icicles, get 'em before they melt! Icicles! Icicles, come get 'em! - Yo, Kenard, why you lie to me? - Fuck you talkin' about? You said the police kicked your door in.
I seen the door.
They ain't kicked shit in.
How you gonna lie? - Go on, man.
Where the package at, man? - Package up my ass.
I'm about to - About to? Go on, walk, gump-ass motherfucker.
Look at that little dude getting his ass beat! Y'all was talking too goddamn much.
Go ahead, Na'.
Get your pack off this bitch so we can go.
I don't want it.
I don't want it.
I'll take that 20 now, Bunk.
I can't see shit in here.
Man.
I might pull out my wallet, reach in, and pull out a 25 by mistake.
I need me some Braille bills, something.
Hm.
You want to call the Crime Lab? - No, man.
I'm like Stevie, too high.
You know I can't do no scene.
There's not gonna be one on account of there is no body, not until the bosses say there is.
And when that happens, - you gonna miss all the fun, junior.
Daniels is gonna keep this alive.
The white shirts will fuck it up somehow, you know it, Lester.
Maybe not, this time.
Daniels is CID.
It's a new day downtown.
I got it.
Ooh.
World is on its hole when Jimmy McNulty is the most qualified to drive.
Yeah, up is down, black is white left is right.
What we got here, huh? - Quiet overnight.
Cool.
Relief will be here after roll call.
It's Sergeant Carver.
How you doing, dawg? Quiet overnight.
You going to school this morning? We're gonna wait a little longer, but I'm not comfortable leaving him here.
Blow over in a week or so, you'll see.
Till then we still have a car on the house, and you have my cell number if anything comes up.
We're gonna look out for you on this.
Have you had breakfast? - No, but You have time for a plate, I'm sure.
Sure.
Yo, I just dreamt something gave me an idea today.
That's right.
You remember when we turned that knocked down light pole at the scales? Pulled $80? I been thinking we can get to toppling a couple of those bad boys ourselves, get all Paul Bunyan and shit, you know? I mean, we'll be all discreet and all.
Not take the hacksaw to no more than a couple on some quiet streets, leave more than enough for some people to have light and all.
Ah.
Thing is, I got this other thing I still need to take care of today.
Come on, Sherrod.
Wake up.
It's late.
No, no, no! What you do? What you do? What you do? Oh, Man, come on, Sherrod.
Come on, man.
Come on.
Come on.
You weren't supposed to do this, man! Oh, Man! - No phones? - Not a one.
The players that were using them before, Chris, Monk, Ray-Ray, they were out there on those corners.
I would have seen if someone went to a burner.
God damn it! If we'd just stayed up on the wire two months ago, we wouldn't be going through this sh - Can I help you? - Which one of you is Sergeant Hauk? - I am.
I'm Shea.
This is Thomas.
IID.
Do you remember pulling a surveillance camera from ISD, serial number AW466J9.
You remember that? We also need to go over your paperwork on some informants, so if you don't mind coming back downtown with us, you and Detective Sydnor, and the third guy, what's his name? Dozerman.
You don't need Sydnor or Doze.
Paperwork's all mine, on the camera, on the informants, me alone.
Bodies? How many? We won't know until we take down those doors.
One drug organization did this? That's the theory, but nothing's certain.
But if we're going to do this, you probably want us to do it now, before the new year, while the bump in the murder rate is still attributable to Mayor Royce.
Thoughtful, Deputy, very thoughtful.
I don't want any more stat games.
Get your people into those houses because if there are bodies in there they need to come out.
But do it now.
I don't want to be finding more bodies come January.
Yes, sir, Mr.
Mayor, sir.
We can take the state money, and instead of being fucked up and broke, our schools go back to being merely fucked up.
No teacher layoffs, no program cuts, no school closures.
But the governor's price is more state control and changes in teachers' union contracts allowing them to remove tenured faculty for cause.
Ouch.
If we don't, we're shorting our kids.
If we do we're giving up local control, which is gonna lose us a lot of middle-class black votes.
And the problem you might have in two years running in the DC suburbs, explaining how you needed their money to bail out your schools.
He sees you coming, Tommy.
That's not important now.
Take the money.
We need it.
Don't look at me.
If you take it, you're selling out the teachers, and that's my base.
If you don't, you're selling out the kids.
Either way, I'll rip you, and half the council will too.
Just glad I'm not the mayor.
You called? - Word down the chain.
Open 'em up.
And this case is gonna need more manpower.
No doubt.
In fact, I might have lost Herc to an IID file.
Really? I went light on him.
I didn't think it would get to a trial board.
This feels like a bigger jacket.
Pick any two you want from CID now.
If you get back up on the wire, we'll detail more.
Beautiful.
I don't know what you're talking about but she was hot.
I'm going back on Friday after work.
Hold on.
What the fuck are you staring at? How are you liking Homicide? Loving it.
Why? Anyway.
It's on the way, boss.
It's Joe and his message but we already know what it is.
Making $40, motherfuckers! All right, girl.
Keep close.
Get a job! 'Naldo, call your amigos and tell them it's on.
That's right.
Yep.
That's it.
One, come on.
Let me see that footwork.
That's it.
One.
One.
One.
That's right.
Yo, what's going on, Mike? I feel like I could just pancake a young 'un, you know what I mean? What about you, Duke? Want some gump? No, I'm-a work this rope.
You working it.
Like a gump.
They pull around back, we're gonna come at 'em from both ways.
Call your friends, tell 'em where we at.
Yo, let me get that rope.
Man, I said you's a gump, fucking dogshit and smelling-ass nigger.
Hey! Man, fuck this.
Yeah! Go along! Get! Nobody want you in here, no way! That be it.
Hey, Daddy.
Kiss the butt of this lyricist.
Blow on my mike and make a wish.
Get up! Hm-hm-hm-hm.
Everybody, get up.
Hm-hm-hm.
Get up! Let me get a ten, Daddy.
Let me get a ten.
I need a ten.
Get the fuck out of here now.
I'll suck your dick for 15.
Trick-ass bitch, I said get.
Don't you want to see my stuff? Ain't nobody want to see that stink box.
Get your ass gone.
Let me get a ten, player.
What the fuck is this? What the fuck y'all think you doing? - We painters.
S, we paint.
Move the van! - You gonna like what I got, soldier.
See? We paint.
We paint.
OK.
Which one of y'all gonna open the truck for me? Ah! Fucking amateurs.
Drink it slow, son.
What am I gonna do? I'll run you home.
II can't go home.
She She expect me to be my father, but I ain't him.
I mean, the way he is and shit it just ain't in me.
What's between you and Michael? Mike ain't Mike no more.
He went hard on this boy last night, fucked his shit up.
I can't go home.
I can't.
Give us a minute.
Mad at myself, man.
I shouldn't have shut Michael out like I did.
Namond did push it.
He ain't pushing nothing now.
Reckon I'll go mend the fence.
This ain't no motel.
Deacon, how'd you get by my people? You can't turn away church folk, ain't done.
You only come by for a favor, so what is it? You know a fella named Bunny Colvin? Yeah, that rogue police commander, tried to legalize drugs.
What's he done now? - He can tell you best.
You did not bring - It's something positive.
Has to do with kids.
Positive, huh? Bunny.
Delegate Watkins.
What's this all about? - It's another bright idea.
You Michael Lee's mother? - He got papers on him? I ain't police.
I'm just looking for him.
You ain't alone.
He booked on out of here, got his own spot, took his little brother with him.
You know where he stay at? - He ain't tell me.
You find the boy, you let him know I need some help.
I popped him and Bug out my ass, and now they forgot where they came from.
What my ma say when you called? - She was mad, right? - Not really.
His mother Lovely lady.
What she say? "Put that bitch in baby booking where he belong, let him learn something.
" She hung up before I could tell her we didn't have a charge.
Baltimore City 911.
They beating a cop on Pennsie and Gold.
Police officer? - They're beating him.
.
Pennsylvania and Gold? - They firing shots now.
Signal 13, report of shots fired, Pennsylvania and Gold.
Signal 13 They cleaned the motherfucker out, Joe, put it in the van the Mexican niggers rolled in.
I ain't hearing about no resistance.
Man, wasn't no time for that.
Omar had one of them commando squads, man.
He had this one ho pulling guns out her pussy.
The shit was unseemly, man.
I got to hand it to Mr.
Little, - I ain't see this one coming.
They took the shipment, Joe.
Not no package.
The motherfucking shipment.
What we gonna tell the co-op? Where you think my mind at now? A lot of gangsters out a lot of shit, man.
I say we mob up and go find this faggot, see? That's what's really 'hood.
That's how you deal with shit.
A lotta gangsters in that room need to take us at our word first.
Yeah, first thing they gonna wonder about is us.
You need to see my man.
I'll hook you up.
Who is this motherfucker? - Let me get a word with you, Mike.
Listen, you got to understand I can't be having no physical confrontation like the one back there.
That kind of thing got to stay outside my gym.
Yeah.
Go ahead, Montel.
I was wrong, the way I handled it.
Step off, nigger.
Mike Don't touch me, man.
Look, man, this here ain't you.
Man don't want you touching on him.
Mike.
I told you, step the fuck off.
Young man, if I was talking to you, you'd know I was.
Shit! He'll listen next time.
Go ahead, man.
Do him.
Nah, man.
I'll hang here for the ambo, all right? Go with your people.
Go ahead, son.
Dr.
Johnson, please call Neuro ICU.
Dr.
Johnson, please call Neuro ICU.
I'm sorry, son.
I'm gonna talk to Social Services.
We'll get you some help.
Randy.
Would the on-call please return to Neuro ICU? On-call, please return to Neuro ICU.
You gonna help, huh? You gonna look out for me? You gonna look out for me, Sergeant Carver? Do you mean it? You gonna look out for me? You promise? You got my back, huh?
A- boom-boom ba-too ba-too ba-too boom boom Bam ba-dam bam ba-dam bam ba All that from overnight? All that from Freamon.
He's out early today rooting through empties.
You know what he is? He is a vandal.
He is vandalizing the board.
He is vandalizing this unit.
He is a Hun, a Visigoth, a barbarian at the gate, clamoring for noble Roman blood and what's left of our clearance rate.
And you sit here doing what exactly? - A hot shot, maybe.
I got a sack in the box, says he owns one from a couple days ago.
White Coat Alley.
What the fuck is wrong with you people? Is everybody on a crusade to make more murders out of bullshit? The mope's confessing, Jay.
He walked up to the Western desk to do it.
Well, at least when you go to manufacturing a murder, Eddie, you already have a suspect in hand.
I respect that part of your game.
Oh, that others might learn.
I need a witness for the statement in box number one.
Yeah.
Let me dump my shit.
I'll be there.
Snowing and blowing up bushels of fun Sodium cyanide.
You're telling me, if we do a full tox screen on this kid, he comes back positive for cyanide? Yeah.
That's what I'm saying, OK? You need to lock me up because I killed that boy, I did.
I did it.
I did it.
So just lock me up and be done with it, all right? Where'd you get the cyanide? You, you getting sick there, bunky? When's the last time you had your medicine? No.
No, I'm not getting high anymore, OK? Let me ask you again, where'd you get cyanide from? If you're saying - Fuck! - I'm sorry.
Shit.
He got my fucking sleeve.
Just calm down.
We'll get something to clean this up, and maybe a soda or something.
Get some sugar in you at least.
I'm sorry.
He settles down, I'll Miranda.
Yeah.
Fuck.
Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock Steals like my ex-wife's lawyer.
Jesus.
Get up there.
Come on, come on, come on! - Give me a sec! Come on.
Call 911.
The mutt in box one just tried to hang himself.
When you walk through the garden Watch your back Well I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He'll save your soul Gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't got to worry Hold on to Jesus' hand We'll be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Oh yeah, mm We'll be safe from Satan Gotta keep the devil Down in the hole Keep him in the hole In the hole Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole Keep him in the hole Keep him in the Down in the hole Down in the hole No idea on this one.
Two in this block and three off Lanvale.
They cluster.
When they found a block they liked, they came back on it.
One in the next block, across Gilmore.
That makes nine.
Scary thing is we're only looking at one district.
Shit.
One sector.
How far you think they might have roamed? There's only one way to find out.
Excuse me.
Daniels.
How we doing with forensics? - That's the colonel's domain, but my understanding is that we're sending a lab team to every house.
So far we're finding nine-millimeter casings.
Once they start scoping at the morgues, we'll probably have slugs to go with them.
Tracewise, we're laser-printing around every body and vacuuming every crime scene for hair and fiber, but, of course, these are vacants.
It'll take our lab a year to sift that many bags of dirt.
Is this all from one drug crew? - Probably.
Marlo Stanfield's bunch.
Where are we on them? Major Crimes was working wiretaps until three months ago, - but we came down on those.
Can we get back up? Trying, but Stanfield's people may have changed up the pattern.
Well, Colonel, whatever you need.
Actually, what I need is Patrol.
Patrol Division? - That was Detective Freamon on the phone.
We found two more at Lafayette and another on Lanvale.
Jesus Christ.
Starting at the first scene, we've been going door to door, but there's no telling how far the shooter wandered.
And with 15,000 vacants in the city, it'll take my people weeks to cover that ground.
He brings this case in, he'll be closer to the throne.
Look, I wouldn't worry about Daniels.
He's a long way from my chair, as are you.
You made your move too soon.
I did.
Politics doesn't suit you.
Stick to operations.
And don't you ever cross me like that again.
Get it out to all the bulletins.
Leander, go downtown.
Run a flyer for every roll call.
Show them the nails and the screws in detail.
All right? You grab a couple of those nails and hit all the hardware stores.
Find out exactly what the model is that we're looking for.
What do you need from me? - Herc.
I'm serious.
Get hold of him.
How's he looking? - Pretty good, considering.
No worse than before he hung himself.
The fuck are you going? - West Side.
Freamon found another.
Fucking Freamon.
He a transport? - Borderline.
BP and pulse are normal.
We gave him Ativan for withdrawal.
Hey, you want to go to a hospital? Let me ask you something.
What kind of a fellow rigs up a hot shot, then walks into a police station to talk about it? Huh? Who does that? - You want us to wait? - No.
What is in your head, fella? The hot shot was for this motherfucker that's been beating on me.
And the boy? He was dipping.
I knew he was.
I I just didn't I didn't think The child had no one for him.
No mother, no family.
He in the street like I'm in the street.
So I tried to, um Like I ain't know who I am, right? Like I'm pretending I ain't been a dope fiend my whole damn life.
Just lock me up, man.
'Cause I killed that child.
The shot wasn't for the kid.
Let's throw this one back.
This sad-ass motherfucker's carrying more weight than we'll ever put on him.
What about the clearance? - Fuck the clearance.
Cut him loose? Shit, he'll go off a roof or some shit.
My luck, I'll catch that call too.
Maybe D ward over at Bayview, something with soft walls.
Is you out of your mind, nigger? You think I'm-a pay you twice for the same motherfucking package? I'm in the same box here.
Faggot took my shit same as he took y'all's.
Man, that's on your own people.
Your guys was the ones doing security.
Hey, they worked it the same as we did the last dozen shipments.
Y'all was fine with it up until this, right? Ain't no one have a problem with it till the motherfucker gave us one.
Thing is, Joe, we called a quorum on this, took a vote that says it's your people need to make this right.
No, no, a co-op means share and share alike.
You share the good and you share the bad.
All right.
I'll dig deep and do the full shipment if that's what y'all need, But don't even think about coming back to me for a re-up after this, 'cause when that good raw shit comes straight off the boat, it's gonna be mine only, seeing as how y'all can't find the heart to stand with me now.
You want to quorum up again, think it over a little? Yeah, I thought you might.
I'll get word back that we need a fresh shipment, and right quick, and you can think about what we need to do to improve security, make sure it only happens the once.
What's up, young 'un? Which one of your people was in charge of the stash? I mean, I want to talk to him.
My nephew.
My sister's boy.
I can't give him up like that.
I can't do it.
My connect had people there when the shit went down.
If that's what you need to make you believe, you can hear it straight from him.
Gente.
Huh? - What's up? - Todo bien? Yeah.
Good.
OK? - OK.
We are rich.
That's what I'm talking about.
Butch.
My man.
Mm.
Right, now, girl, you sell that off slow, you feel me? 'Cause word gonna get around.
They gonna come back on you now.
Nah.
None of that.
Yo, anybody ask about me on another job, tell 'em, "Kimmy been retired," all right? Be easy.
How much you got left after splitting with the Mexicans? Mm.
Gracious.
Only problem, I'll spend the rest of my life trying to put that out on the street.
I ain't no drug dealer, Butch.
You feel me? Mm.
Shit, we just stole too much this damn time.
So, what am I gonna do, Butch? Well you could come give Joe a call.
Offer to sell the shit back to him for 20 cents on the dollar.
Joe, Joe oughta find some humor in that.
I know you do.
I understand there's a waiting list.
The thing is this kid has already been in a foster home.
Right.
And now his foster mother's been hospitalizeed, so Right.
No.
Is there a supervisor that I can talk to? I'm gonna be a little late for roll call.
Gotta get this kid settled.
What's wrong with DSS? On the phone with them right now.
They're talking about a group home.
Either you come up with a guardian, or he goes to Social Services.
No two ways about it.
Hello? Hello? Need your help.
Get dressed.
I'm suspended with pay, pending a full trial board.
Can't do nothing for no one, Kima.
Fuck what they say.
This here's police work, and I'm asking if you police.
All right.
Listen up, you mutts.
This is complicated.
It isn't complicated if you went to college or I don't know, your mothers actually stopped drinking for a minute while they was pregnant.
But for Baltimore City Police, this is complicated.
Anyway, this right here is for the Major Crimes homicide investigation into the bodies being found in the vacant houses here in the Western.
Command now wants all the districts to check every vacant in the city.
That means you will need to go door to door to every vacant house in your post and look at what was used to board it up.
Most will have the Phillips head screws that HCD uses, like this here on the flyer.
But if you see a house that's been boarded up with nail-gun nails like these shown here, call your sector sergeant immediately.
You can enter the house but, if you find a body, do not disturb the crime scene.
All told.
What I don't understand is why they keep busting my balls about this.
Daniels gave me a slap on the wrist for the thing with the minister.
Marimow got bounced just before he could fuck me up on anything else.
You sure we on the right block? Yeah.
Put them on the curb right here, more or less.
And then you fired the nail gun into the asphalt, right where they sat? Yeah.
Right next to the little broad's leg.
So who tells these IID fucks to start running through my paperwork, looking for who the fuck cares? I mean, it's not like they caught me stealing or brutalising motherfuckers, right? Bunk.
Yeah, it looks like it could be.
Is that about right? Yeah.
Must have worked itself free.
I took them nails to Ballistics.
Comparer said he could match anything out of that gun, and maybe the nail gun itself, if we could get it.
I know they'll take my stripes, but you don't think they're gonna go past that, right? Herc, what'd you do exactly? Lost the camera I took from ISD without my lieutenant's approval.
And what evidence I got from the camera, I put to a made-up informant.
Son, they're gonna beat on your white ass like it's a rented mule.
Fuck.
Make him sign it.
to himself, that cocksucker.
I hate that bastard.
He called him cocksucker.
Damn bedside.
You're gonna break that call button.
Look, I'm sorry.
I don't mean to bother y'all, but I don't get but four channels.
That's all you get.
What about my man over there? He has insurance.
And insurance pays for his cable hook-up.
Only reason you're admitted is that fracture.
Soon as we can discharge you, we will.
All you gangsters wash up in our ER like it's your due.
You could stand out there slinging drugs till you get shot or cut, have us put you back together free of charge so you can do it again.
Gangster, huh? - Oh, you're not that? I pulled your admissions.
You were here in '90 for a gunshot wound, and, three years before that, you were here for chest surgery for a cutting.
Long time back, yeah.
And I see you're still at it.
Dennis Wise, I'm Howard Colvin.
Are you police? I used to be but now I'm a bit of a teacher up at Tilghman.
I got a little problem and you know Carver over at the Western, he said you might be able to help me.
I went up to, uh, your gym.
They told me what happened.
What is it that I'm supposed to know about? It's Namond Brice.
Yeah.
What's the problem? Oh, sh Well, I've just come to care about the kid.
You heard it was Little Kevin? I seen one of the police step out the household with his necklace.
That's Kevin up in there, yo.
This motherfucker be killing niggers just to do it.
See? Nigger killing motherfuckers just 'cause he can, not 'cause they snitching, not 'cause it's business, but 'cause this shit just come natural to him.
Yo, Bodie, man - I mean, Little Kevin is gone.
This nigger don't feel nothing.
And all them motherfuckers in them row houses, - nobody mean a fucking thing to him.
Bodie, calm the fuck down.
Fuck Marlo, man! Fuck him, and anybody that think it's all right to do people this way.
You hear me? Fuck all y'all motherfuckers.
Get the fuck off me, man.
That's his friend in the bag.
It's like that nigger ain't fit, man.
Fuck up that police car! - Take his ass downtown.
This motherfucker goin' down.
You see that shit, yo? - Lock his dumb ass up.
Attica! Attica! Attica! The number of victims discovered shot to death in the boarded-up buildings How flattering for us.
Knocks the school deficit off the front page.
There's your silver lining.
Those bodies are on Royce.
School deficit should be too.
Should be, but that'll play out in the next fiscal year.
By then you're out of Teflon.
So I take the governor's money, then two years from now, when I shake the hand of any voter in the DC suburbs, they say, "You're the guy who needed my tax dollars to bail out your school system.
" If you take his check, you lose votes in Prince George's and Montgomery, and you can't beat him statewide without the counties.
Two years from now, if you're governor, you can help the city from Annapolis.
He's the mayor now.
I agree we can't fix the city schools but we can't let them get any worse either.
Go to Annapolis.
Eat his shit.
If we lose control of the schools, Nerese and the teachers'll rip you but the rest of the city'll see you did it for them kids.
Kids don't vote.
Taking a risk with our supply, ain't you? I mean, setting up a meet with anybody other than us.
Got to.
The boy crave reassurance.
Boss, you get that boy Marlo in line on our connect, he might try to go round the co-op, go round us.
You know what I'm saying? Cautious as those Greeks be, who you think they gonna trust? They know us.
They don't know him.
Damn.
Look at this nigger coming round.
Easy, son.
Easy.
Yeah.
I knew I'd find you boys in here, burning that oil after hours.
Nigger, I'm-a kill you twice.
Oh? So you don't want your shipment, huh? Say your piece.
Well, it just so happens I got some hairon for sale.
Marketwise, you fellas look like buyers.
You feel me? This some shameless shit.
Ain't no shame in my game, dawg.
I'm here about the business.
Ain't that right, Joe? - How much? - 20 on the dollar.
Ten, nigger.
Don't make me say 25 now.
That's 400,000.
How about we take your faggot ass in the back room and get into some diabolical brutality, find our shit the old-fashioned way? - Feel me? - Oh, I feel you.
Sound like a plan.
But I don't know, though, Joe.
You think Omar gonna give it up? Say, how's she ticking, Joe? Oh.
I'll be in touch.
And he thinks I'll help the schools, help the city a lot more if I'm governor two years from now.
Thinking that way it wouldn't just be about me if I don't take the money.
Are you asking me what I think? I think you'll do the right thing.
For real, I'm telling you the truth.
It tickles.
You sure you want to do this? I don't wanna hurt you.
Nah.
Detective Crutchfield, do you have a moment? Yes, ma'am.
Is something wrong? I've got a question on these reports.
Were they all found in the basement? No, ma'am.
We found most in the basement, but some are on the upper floors too.
Can you be specific in the 24s, for my sake, anyway? - No problem.
Thanks.
How many so far? - 17.
Christ.
That's a lot of red names.
It's your first red ball.
Yeah.
I thought I'd get a nice quiet domestic or two to start me off.
We got national press on this already.
You'll be fine, Ronnie.
Just don't let any of these guys see you sweating.
Hey, I need a case dropped.
To tell Mello to sign off I need a friendly ASA.
He kicks out a radio-car window, and you wanna give him a walk? What's the date range as per decomp? The one on Mount Street looked about a week? Some a few days, some are skeletal at this stage.
They all head shots? - Multiples, most of them.
Black males, 15 to 25? - Uh-huh.
No, some older.
We got one in a security guard's uniform here somewhere.
You laser-print? - Mm-hm.
Vacuum the rooms? - Yes.
Gluco for blood? What's the geography? to Winchester, Schroeder to the Grove.
The Eastern boys found four more on Monument Street.
East Side? - That threw us.
We're casting a wider net now, - searching the vacants citywide.
My number's 23 in the office pool.
I still have hope.
Hell of a case, right here.
You know, if I was police, I don't think I could lean back on it.
You? - Not if I was real police.
Right.
Right.
Thank you, Detective.
What's up? - Calvin, you done already? - Yeah, I'm done.
Attention, a reminder.
Answer sheets must be turned into the office by you and only you immediately upon completion of the tests.
Thank you for your cooperation.
Where are we on the nail gun? A Hilti DX model.
High end but common among contractors.
Is it what Sergeant Hauk saw in the back of Chris Partlow's truck? We showed him one, and he thought so.
Then we dragged his ass back down to the block where he did the car stop.
Anything? - We found what might be a hole where he said he fired into the street but no nail, even after sweeping the block with metal detectors.
Probably took a ride in some bastard's radio but now it's in a tire pile somewhere.
So our next move is a search and seizure on that truck.
And a court order for hair and blood from Chris and Snoop both.
With everything we're pulling out these houses, we might get lucky with tracework.
What's your PC? - Herc sees the nail gun.
Nothing wrong with owning a power tool.
What's the PC on Chris and Snoop specifically? A witness.
The boy who was told by a co-conspirator who the murderer was.
The boy is a source.
He's not a witness.
If he's just a source, you don't have enough.
But with the links between some of these bodies and Stanfield, we have a pattern.
Weak.
Very weak.
Oh, fuck it.
Give me an hour.
You haven't left me alone all week.
Every time I come out of the pool, you want to dry me off without a towel.
Dennis Wise.
Hey, man.
Yeah.
Were you able to get some word? On my say-so, he willing to sit and hear you out.
But what you asking him for I don't know.
Good luck, though.
If you see my man Carver again, you tell him he owe me one now.
All right, man.
Appreciate it.
You got it, bro.
All right.
Y'all coming back with a warrant? The roughneck in room 232.
From what I know, he runs a gym program for kids.
He got himself shot for trying to pull a kid off the corner.
Look, you need to speak up now or face the fact that you never spoke at all.
They wouldn't let me see my son at marches.
Said there wasn't much left by the time y'all found him.
We did the best we could with the information we had.
Word come to me that a man named Chris and a girl named Loop or Snoop or some such took my son and killed him.
Told I would never see my boy again.
Why can't you just make an exception and move his name to the top of the list, see that he gets another foster parent? The list is the list.
Some clients have been in group homes for years.
He was in group homes for years.
Now he's gotta go back - Please don't raise your voice.
If you're going to raise your voice - Please.
There's gotta be some way that he doesn't have to go Yeah, there is.
There's gotta be.
How about How about if I take him.
As a foster parent? The screening process takes three to four months.
This child can't be in your custody, Sergeant.
He needs to come back under our supervision per the juvenile order.
Mm.
Think you all that for hassling niggers and shit? I know I'm all that.
I'm thinking about some pussy.
Yeah.
Me too.
M-hm.
They dumped their tools.
Nothing under the seats.
Nothing in the glove box.
Registered to some little old lady, no doubt.
These guys know the drill.
Can you see these two riding tame? Come on.
Aw, shit.
There it is.
Whoa.
Uh-huh? - It ain't even our truck.
But I need to hear it from you.
From me? This is not my affair, huh? It is what Joe says.
I'm only here right now for Joe, who I trust, who I respect, who I worked with for many years.
You, I do not know, and I don't need to know.
But because this thing goes wrong for Joe, then Well, how am I supposed to know this ain't no setup? How am I supposed to know your people ain't in on it too? You know because Joe says and because I say.
And you trust your people like that? I talked to my driver.
I looked into his soul.
Chris and Snoop just been popped with a gun charge, found in the truck.
Call the bondsman.
But first, put a follow on him right there.
Who, white dude with the hat on? - Mm.
What, he a problem? - Nah.
I just need to know more.
All right.
All right.
Satisfied? - $90,000 to you in the morning.
We'll put a hunt on Omar later, after the heat on them empty houses give way.
The fuck are you doing here? You think that charge gets dropped without somebody showing you some special love? You hungry? Come on.
All right.
Might be a surety bond on this Chris Partlow, given all of his priors.
Pearson woman, not so much.
All right? - What's this? - Court order.
We get blood and hair.
two blood samples each.
It's a lot of houses, a lot of deeds.
Who knows what you left behind? We still in the city? Cylburn Arboretum.
Pimlico's right up the hill.
This is nice.
I ain't no snitch.
Didn't say you were.
I've been doing this a long time.
I ain't never said nothing to no cop.
I feel old.
I been out there since I was 13.
I ain't never fucked up a count, never stole off a package, never did some shit that I wasn't told to do.
I've been straight up.
But what come back? You think if I get jammed up on some shit, they'd be like, "Yeah.
Bodie been there.
"Bodie hang tough.
We got his pay lawyer.
We got a bail.
" They want me to stand with them, right? But where the fuck they at when they supposed to be standing by us? When shit goes bad and there's hell to pay, where they at? This game is rigged, man.
We like the little bitches on a chessboard.
Pawns.
Yo, I'm not snitching on none of my boys.
Not my corner, and not no Barksdale people, or what's left of them.
But Marlo, this nigger and his kind, man, they gotta fall.
They gotta.
Well, for that to happen, somebody's gotta step up.
I'll do what I gotta.
I don't give a fuck.
Just don't ask me to live on my fucking knees, you know? You're a soldier, Bodie.
Hell, yeah.
I remember you.
You used to be a roll-up on Pennsie and Fremont.
Yeah.
It was my old post.
I came up with CBS.
Calhoun, Baker, Stricker.
Yeah.
I used to have to bang up on y'all all the time.
I remember that too.
Yeah.
I ain't a cop now, right? I mean, like I told Cutty, I'm sort of like a teacher now, and that's how I come to know Namond.
Only reason I'm even here is Cutty spoke for you.
He say what I'm asking? Your boy is smart and funny and open-hearted, and he got some flex in him.
And I ain't see it at first, 'cause he was always acting out, always full up of corner talk, you know, just talking shit to hide himself.
But he could go a lot of places and do a lot of things in his life, be out there in the world in a way that didn't happen for you and me.
I mean, you know, our kind? Shit.
Man, we both know we gonna go to our grave forever knowing what block Bentalou dead-ends at, or who got their liquor license over at the Underground, or what corner Tater man got shot on when he come out the Musical Lounge back in '88.
It's a vision in gold.
The West Side we knew it's dead, man.
You know, people in the game nowadays, I mean, it's a whole different breed.
No code, no family, and damn sure no respect.
You send Namond out on the corner now, I'm giving him maybe one, two years before he down at the morgue.
And maybe, if you're lucky, up here with you.
Maybe, maybe not.
That's the game.
I'm talking about Namond here, Mr.
Brice.
He's a lot of things, a lot of good things.
Before you know, he might surprise all of us given half a chance, but he ain't made for them corners, man.
I mean, not like we were.
That's why I come down here because I gotta believe that you see it, being who you are and all you've been through.
You know your son.
It's in your hands, man.
You asking too much.
Yeah, but I'm asking.
You sure it was the boy Bodie? - I seen him come from out the Central Booking on Eager Street side.
Then he got in some car with some white dude.
Police? What kind of car, a Caprice? No, a hooptie, I think.
They on you like a motherfucker.
They jacking you up, pulling all your work out them houses, right? We can't have nobody snitching on us now.
We ain't sure it's that.
What, you wanna let it go? Risk it? Send a message.
Maybe give it to your pup, get him started.
You and Snoop, y'all lay low till this shit here blow down.
Boy worked for Bodie.
First time, best be someone he ain't know.
You hear what Joe said? Joe's saying this cocksucker who stole our shit wanna sell it back to us for 30 on the dollar.
Joe's saying it's another 90 to buy back our share.
Mm.
Dag, yo.
Thought you forgot about me.
Why don't you wait outside, all right? You spoke to his father? If it goes the way I think, he'll be back with his mom by tomorrow.
Big day all round tomorrow.
Delegate Watkins got us 30 minutes at the mayor's office.
Icicles! Get 'em while it's going! Icicles! Come on! Yo, Spider, what's the count? I don't even think we gonna sell out today, man.
Icicles! Icicles! Yo, Bodie.
Yo, Bodie.
Icicles! Icicles! - Yo, Bodie, you better run, yo.
Yo, this my corner.
I ain't running nowhere.
Bodie, is you crazy? - Shit is on! - Run with it, motherfuckers! I don't give a fuck! I'm right here! You ain't putting me up in one of them empty-ass houses, neither.
Bodie, come on, man.
Come on, you skinny-assed bitch! Come on! I don't know about this.
Mayor's office.
Yes.
Actually, you want the Department of Housing and Community Development.
Look, I don't know about this, man.
I just Ma'am, uh Uh, if, uh Oh, sorry.
If the mayor prefers not to, um If he, like, feels more comfortable with Dr.
Parenti alone, you know, because of the drug-legalisation controversy last year I don't think Mayor Carcetti is in your meeting.
He's in Annapolis.
OK.
Thank you.
What up? - What up? Still asleep? Early bird get that worm.
Hm.
How you liking the crib? Fine, thanks.
Must feel good to be on your own.
Yo, where you get that ring from? Took it from a nigger.
Why? You want it? Nah, nah, you keep it, shorty.
I'll go get Bug ready for school.
You ready to put in work? Two things, then.
First, we're gonna give you the corner up on Payson.
Used to be Bodie's old corner.
Now it's yours.
Crew that up.
Run that shit.
You get the points on that shop.
Then we got this other thing.
Yo, if I ain't stepping on nothing, who was that we dropped for you, yo? - Bug's daddy.
Word? That's not how you spell "paraphernalia".
How the fuck do you spell it? - Hey, fellas.
Not like that.
McNulty.
Hey.
You're four to 12, right? - You heard about Bodie? - What about? - Bodie, from up Payson.
Yeah, yeah.
What? Shot dead on his corner.
Midnight shift caught it.
Check the readout.
Sergeant, get your ass in here.
God damn it, Sergeant, you're on the brink of insubordination.
You call DSS right now and ship him out.
That's an order.
Lieutenant I got $235, if it helps.
How would that help? Maybe we can get a foster spot like that.
Pay somebody.
This is tracking, plain and simple.
No, it's a socialisation process.
But to any parent who complains, you're still segregating them.
But it's for their benefit, and for the benefit of the teachers trying to teach.
And you're proposing to expand this to every middle school? With enough grant money and your support, yes.
By September.
But you wouldn't be teaching test curriculum? These would be the children left behind, so to speak.
Yeah, but as it is, we're leaving them all behind anyway.
We just won't admit it.
What we mean to say is - Gentlemen we'll be in touch.
So, what, that's it? After a two-minute hearing, they stick a fork in us? I'm a liability in there, man.
Seems like every time I open my mouth in this town, I'm telling people something they don't wanna know.
It's not you.
It's the process.
The process? We're gonna get the grant.
We study the problem, we propose solutions.
If they listen, they listen.
If they don't, it still makes for great research.
What we publish on this is gonna get a lot of attention.
From who? - From other researchers, academics.
Academics? What, they gonna study your study? When do this shit change? And you put him out, huh? He need to get hard.
Well, if he out, then he out.
Oh, no, you not.
You ain't gonna take my son away from me Remember who the fuck you talking to right here.
Remember who I am.
My word is still my word.
In here, in Baltimore and in any place you can think of calling home, it'll be my word, they'll find you.
Man come down here to say my son can be anything he damn please.
Except a soldier.
Yeah, well, look at me up in here.
Who the fuck would want to be that if they could be anything else, De'Londa? Hm? So did you cut me off too? You still got me.
We'll get by.
But you gonna let go of that boy.
Bet that.
OK, now? - It's Omar, baby.
For your bank? That's for your pain, Butch.
I be my own bank now.
Mm.
They ain't follow you? Nah.
Joe played it my way.
He had to admit my word was better than his.
You feel me? Let's go, then.
Yeah, it's in the van, in the garage in the back of 2249 Polk Street.
The key gonna be in the cinderblock.
You steal this much, and this ain't over.
This ain't over.
Thing about that Republican ass, it's not the flesh of his political fathers.
Jesus.
You left it on the table.
Smug son of a bitch.
He was gonna make me beg, then call a press conference so the world could see me on my knees.
Don't worry.
Two years and we'll make him pay.
Icicles, icicles! Got those icicles! Time-out! Time-out! Shakedown! Corner's indicted.
Go on.
Get.
Except you, motherfucker.
On the wall.
Sorry about Bodie.
I ain't jacking you up.
I'm trying to do right for your boy.
Who dropped him? - Y'all did.
They took him out 'cause he was talking to y'all.
Word is they seen him with the police down at Central Booking.
So cuff me or kick my ass off this corner before you do me the same.
Hey, Duquan.
Don't you need to be at Douglass? I'm on my way there, yeah.
Where's your book bag? - Oh, it's, um I'm-a stop past the house and get it.
It's a present for all you did.
It's for your desk.
That's great, Duquan.
Thanks.
Stop past any time, let me know how it's going with you.
OK.
But I ain't want to go back.
Program's ending, Zenobia.
Yeah, boy.
Back to genpop.
Yes.
Pack my bags.
What about you? - I mean, this was all right but maybe it's time.
Why are you up? You're working four to 12.
What's the matter? It's the thing with these bodies.
Lester and them are getting up on it.
It's under Daniels.
He's got suction now.
He can deliver.
You want in.
I just feel like I owe it now.
To who? To this kid.
Corner kid.
Getting ready to turn him, you know, wrap him up and give him to Lester as a present.
He one of the bodies in the houses? No, they dropped him in the street.
Maybe I'd be different, you know? Different? Yeah, no more of the drinking and the whoring and all that.
All that anger.
'Cause I'm better now here with you.
No more playing "Jimmy Bust Balls" with the world.
"Jimmy Bust Balls"? I swear to God, Beadie, that son of a bitch nearly killed me.
It's OK.
What? - You tried.
You don't need to feel bad.
Thanks.
Hey, yo, look at this! Randy Wagstaff.
All right, Randy, this way.
Ain't no fuckin' thing, man.
Take that top bunk over there.
Five-0.
Are you sure? I'm not asking 'cause I can't use you.
I'm asking for your sake.
I think I can do this and keep myself away from myself, if that makes any sense.
But I gotta tell you, we're not gonna get Marlo Stanfield or anyone else above the street, - not on street rips.
What do you suggest? Either a wired CI or a Title III.
That's what makes this case.
You sure? Maybe you do this fast and clean and simple.
Then you don't do it at all.
Chain of command, Colonel.
How in the hell do we kick up percentages in math and reading both? You believe the numbers? - What? - "Proficient" means they're at least two grades below their level.
"Advanced" can mean they're at grade level or a year below.
They score 'em like that, and they say we're making progress.
OK.
I'm still learning.
Nah, you're gonna be fine.
Albert, Zenobia, Namond, good to have you back with us.
Yeah.
Your worst nightmare come right back on you.
Say, no, I'm just playin'.
OK.
Everyone open to 121.
Who figured out the first problem? - Kareem? - 164.
Correct.
How'd you get it? - Don't know.
Come.
Show us.
Oh, just when you think you're done What's that one? 20? - Anybody heard from Bunk? - Ballistics say the guns match to nothing.
Opened and closed.
Mm.
And they cleaned the prints.
Well, maybe we find a witness.
Maybe trace lab gives us a hair or splatter or something.
But short of that, we're gonna have to go proactive.
Where are you on the new wire? Back to square one.
We're in here for the long haul.
How you happen to pick this place for us to stage? - Lemel? - Mm.
They closed it a few years back, and I knew it was near a lot of our crime scenes.
I went to school here back in the day.
Got a decent education, now that I think on it.
You try and talk to him? Didn't know what to say.
Only heard from my sergeant this morning.
Guess I missed the 24 they wrote on it.
And he really tried to do himself? It wasn't just for show or nothing? Bubs' got some problems, but insincerity ain't one of them.
Shame's some tricky shit, ain't it? Makes you feel like you want to change, and then beats you back down when you think you can't.
When was the last time y'all talked? More than a couple of years, since he last got on the wagon, I think.
If he's up in D ward, he's cleaner than a motherfucker right now.
Oh.
You coming? Maybe later.
Can't believe he'd leave that money on the table.
Why not? - School.
Kids.
Shit.
You ain't done enough of this here, I suppose.
They always disappoint.
Closer you get, more you look.
All of them.
Who you going with next year? If he tries for Elijah's seat, I might stay with Royce.
If not, there's this young buck out in Salisbury thinks he can snatch up the First District seat.
Hm.
Mistletoe.
Come get 'em.
Mistletoe! How y'all doing? Ain't so much money.
Mistletoe! You can look at 'em in the eye now.
No matter who he is or what he's done, you look 'em right in the eye.
I'm still your father.
Some people think they jive me But I know they must be crazy Can't see their misfortune Maybe if they're lazy Walk through all the fire - The case against Fly through all the smoke See my enemy The end of the road Walk on pines and needles See what they can do Walk on gilded splinters With the king of the Zulu Come, come, kiddy come, come Walk on gilded splinters Come, come, kiddy come, come Walk on gilded splinters Till I burn up Till I burn up Put gris gris on your doorstep Soon you'll be in the gutter I can melt you just like butter A- a-a I can make you stutter Walk through all the fire Walk through all the smoke See my enemy End of the road Walk on pines and needles - What you want? - See what they can do Walk on gilded splinters With the king of the Zulu Come on, come, kiddy come, come Walk on gilded splinters Come on, come, kiddy come, come Walk on gilded splinters Till I burn up Till I burn Right to the body.
That's right.
Keep it moving.
Where your eyes at? What you looking at? Come on, come, kiddy come, come Walk on gilded splinters Come on, come, kiddy come, come Walk on gilded splinters Come on, come, kiddy come, come You cannot be out here.
Y'all need to find something constructive to do with yourselves.
Go on.
Walk on gilded splinters Come on.
Answer the question.
Michael.
Michael.
The gun.
Na', you're gonna be late.
Go on.
Go.
Boy, where's your plate? Yo, Tyrell, wait up.

You see now, I'm here to tell you, this remaining silent shit ain't nothing like they make it out to be.
Mm-mm.
You up in here all tight with it, waiting for your paid lawyer, thinking you all wise, ain't you? No, see that work when you some kind of criminal mastermind when you ain't been seen runnin' from the deed.
When your own fuckin' running partner ain't in the next room, putting you in.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yep, yep, yep, yeah.
He's telling it like a little bitch.
We even went to Mickey D's for him because he was so motherfucking helpful.
Two quarter pounders, big fries, McDonaldland cookies, Dr.
Pepper.
That's how your boy roll, right? All right.
Step out.
Where we going? - Break room.
So you can enjoy that, huh? - All right.
But I still ain't sayin' shit to y'all.
Yeah.
Marnell, what the fuck? How many years you figure we've been doing the same shit? - 20, at least.
Yeah.
True.
True.
False.
Load 'em up.
This shit actually works? - Hell, yeah.
Americans are stupid people.
We believe what we're told.
All right.
So, it can feel my heartbeat? - Pulse, yeah.
If Marnell say I had the gun, he lying.
The machine tells the tale, son.
Are we ready, Professor? - Yeah.
We'll start with an easy one.
Is your name, in fact, Dashawn Fredericks? Yeah.
True.
And do you reside, in fact, the 1200 block of Woodyear Street in West Baltimore? Yeah.
True.
And did you and Marnell shoot your boy Pookie down on Cary Street just like Marnell said you did? Nah.
No.
Lie.
You lying motherfucker.
Mm.
Mm-mm.
Machine is never wrong, son.
Fuck, man.
Nigger can't never keep his damn mouth shut.
I should've busted a cap in Pookie ass my own self.
Left Marnell home and shit.
He just a bitch, is all.
The bigger the lie, the more they believe.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole Where's the BlackBerry? Aw, he brought his tunes.
All the running shit pay, don't it? We got one coming in.
Unidentified number-one male.
Got him, Jimmy? Yeah.
More face-to-face.
Oh, man.
You know, this would be more fun if we were actually getting paid.
You know, I heard a story about you, when I was back in the West.
It's not true.
I haven't even told it yet.
Whatever it is, it's not true.
You were on a vice undercover one time, and instead of pulling up, you went ahead and closed the deal.
I read this report where you got blowed by this whore and you actually wrote it that you got blowed.
You believe everything you read? Look, man, all I'm saying, if I'm gonna take your package, split me and be fair.
I got to pay all my people the same and you upping the price on me.
Pay your people less.
They my people, though.
Short yourself.
Split it 60/40.
You want better? You need to tool up.
I'll wait for Chris, Snoop and the rest of my people call on your people.
We will be brief with all you motherfuckers.
I think you know.
All right.
Northbound on Fulton.
Lester, coming your way.
I see him.
Roger that.
Every day, same shit.
Look at this pretty bitch.
Ten-hut! Just sit the fuck down.
I'm not gonna pretend to be insulted 'cause you all are pretending to respect the rank.
Today, he's an SIC.
Tomorrow, he might be a newly minted lieutenant.
You never know with these career-minded motherfuckers.
If I was minding my career, would I be in the Western - in command of you useless fucking humps? - Oh! Okay.
Let's go to the readouts and the warrants first.
Ah, fuck the readouts.
Fuck the warrants.
I mean, - what the fuck is going on with our hours? - Yeah.
Easy, easy.
If I had an answer, you'd have an answer.
I'm in the same boat as you.
It's five weeks since I've seen overtime or court pay and I gotta pay the credit union, the archdiocese for my kid's tuition and my ex-wife - so she can pay her cunt of an attorney - Shut the fuck up and sit the fuck down! In your fucking seats.
We're still authorizing overtime and the state's attorneys are still signing court slips.
But you ain't paying us.
The union says we're going down to the NLRB and deal with this shit.
Word is that when the city's budget situation is improved, we'll all see that as back pay or comp time.
Every last hour.
Back pay my ass.
This shit here is just paper.
Officer Brown, sit your ass.
Sit! We're all professionals.
And we're about to police the roughest district in one of the roughest cities in the world.
Show some pride.
If promises were made, promises will be kept.
The situation in the city right now is bad but it won't stay bad forever.
We wait this out like professionals.
Now, then, back to the readouts.
First item is from motor pool.
No marked or unmarked units can be shopped - on Dickman Street until further notice.
What?! Cutbacks and fleet budgeting require that all districts make do with vehicles in their current state of repairs.
That means Shitbox cars are falling apart, don't they fucking know that? - Where you at? - On his ass.
You guys got the eyeball.
All good, Lester.
It's all good.
Natives are restless? - I don't know how long before the wheels fall off the cart.
A year ago, they were promised pay raises, pension bumps, better equipment, better cars.
Now we can't even pay the OT.
Gave them the professionalism bit? In the real world, they pay professionals.
That's why we call them pros.
Major, there's a problem on the back lot.
If it bothers you, clean them up.
Fuck you.
Fuck you right back.
It was all fucked up when I got it for midnight, ask anyone.
You clean it or get the midnight shift to clean it.
Clean this.
Oh! Fuck you, Gene.
You don't leave it like that for the next man.
You're the one whining like a little bitch, Bobby.
Oh! As SIC, should I stop this? That's my car.
What, you think this is good for morale or something? These guys haven't had an honest paycheck in weeks.
We have no fucking morale, Sergeant.
Kid ran us around for half an hour.
Amazing, ain't it? Here we go.
Got a meet.
Want me to come? No, no.
You go check on your corner.
I'll send word if it's on.
He's moving.
All right.
Lester, are you there? - Up on Reisterstown with Chris.
Marlo's on the move.
Should we follow him? - Why? We know where he's going.
No, sir, we've cut it to the bone already.
The cars are gonna go in service for the next month.
And for as long as we can get away with it, we're deferring all overtime and court pay.
How's crime? How are your stats? The double-digit decline you wanted, not possible with these cuts.
For God's sake, you gotta show us some kind of reduction.
I campaigned on that.
This deferred overtime - We'll pay it as we can.
And the pay raises I promised? They're still coming, just a year late.
Right now I gotta throw every dollar at the schools but you tell your people I know I made promises.
Where else can you guys trim? Well, we, uh, we've been running a prolonged investigation into all the bodies we pulled out of those houses last year.
Months of surveillance, thousands of man-hours.
At this point, we're not close to an arrest.
You're saying you want us to come down on a case in which 22 people were murdered and left to rot in city houses? We caught national news coverage on those murders.
Last year.
I don't want anyone saying we're giving up on those murders.
I don't want that headline.
But given our fiscal situation, we could temporarily suspend the investigation pending new developments.
Anything else? - We need to take away the ten-hour cap on secondary employment.
You do that and your police aren't doing police work.
They're guarding liquor stores, bouncing nightclubs, putting up drywall.
Respectfully, morale is at rock bottom.
You need to throw our people a bone or you could lose them for good.
Hold the line now and we'll get to a better place, I promise.
Say it, Norman.
You're thinking it.
Truth to power, Norman.
Isn't that what I keep you around for? When the governor threw that 50-some million on the table, you should've picked that shit up.
He takes the state bail-out and he never becomes governor.
He shorts the police department, the crime rate stays up, he ain't no governor, neither.
Just a weak-ass mayor of a broke-ass city.
Feel better? - A little bit.
You? Boy folded it up.
He taking our shit 60/40.
Yeah, nigger showed no heart at all.
So my people could stand down there? - Definitely.
All right.
Won't need no drama behind this nonsense.
And po-po's still up on you, huh? - Yeah, hot all the time, man.
Today they got the white boy with the black hair up on the roof with Booker T Washington.
Watching with his spyglass.
The young 'un saw him climbing up.
Yeah.
All right, so we'll do like this, then.
Mm-hm.
That's it.
All of that so he could swap a few words.
How do you wiretap that? - Lester? - Are we done for the day, man? You don't want to stay on Chris, see where he goes next? We've been on this guy for months, he doesn't slip.
And no one's kicking our OT.
Yeah.
We're done.
Copy that.
Greenhouse gas right here.
Gas up.
Hey, Marcus, you got a count for me? - Spider, you got a count for me? - For you? No.
How we do? Can't say for sure.
They short, huh? - Man, I just know they ain't told me.
Greenhouse gas.
Gas up on the green.
Go home, man.
Bug'll be out of school pretty soon.
I ain't you, Michael.
Go get Bug.
I'll see you tonight.
Greenhouse gas right here.
Yo, we short? - No, we good.
Got 60 left from 1,400.
We on it, Mike.
So why you ain't tell Duke? - Huh? - Why you fucking with Duke, nigger? - I ain't fucking with nobody, man.
He just acting like a bitch, that's all.
Greenhouse gas is hot.
They're getting a little sloppier.
Did that meet in the same lot they've used twice in the last week.
The one in McCulloh? - M-hm.
That's pretty thin considering how long we've been on these guys, Lester.
They're gonna get lazy, fall into a pattern.
They all do, over time.
Someone say overtime? We did 14 hours today and we'll only get paid for 8.
Cases gotta go green before they go black.
That's how I was taught.
Couple more weeks and you get a month's work.
Couple more weeks, I'm gonna be in jail for late payment of child support.
Who needs a taste? Shit.
Who's buying, motherfucker? - I'll cover a round or two.
Then I guess I'm drinking a round or two.
Oh, yeah, and a boat dock, huh? Yeah.
And the gazebo herefor my wife.
You get any word from downtown on when they'll start paying out the OT again? 'Cause we going double shift on these surveillances.
They haven't told me anything.
Guess I ain't in the loop.
We have to shut it down, Colonel.
Explain to me how we come up on 22 bodies.
Explain that to me.
This comes straight from the hall.
You're talking about a year's worth of work by my best people.
To just give up on all of that? Colonel, we haven't made an honest payroll in over a month.
Where the fuck is Carcetti? The man promised us a new day.
He's tangled up with the schools and we're on hold.
The mayor's made a few commitments to me personally.
If you want to call in a marker on behalf of this department, feel free.
And while you're at it, see if you can get your take-home car back.
Budget officer called an hour ago telling us to relieve colonels and below of take-home vehicles.
Hold on.
See, if you move it here, then I got you.
Okay.
The little man bringing it.
Yo, Duke I've been thinking.
You ain't need to put in time on the corner if you don't want.
I mean, you doing enough here with Bug to get paid.
How you mean? - I'm saying, looking out for him.
And I've been thinking, like, if you were to get locked up for some shit, how'd it be for Bug, you know? So, who's gonna watch your corner in the morning? Thought I might promote Spider, see how he do for a week or so.
So, I'd be like a nanny and shit? What am I gonna do before Bug get home from school, clean the stove and bake some cookies? Do what you wanna, yo.
Before he get home, time is your own.
You beat me.
Oh, snap, you beat me.
Fucking liars, motherfucking liars.
Easy, boy.
I was happy on patrol.
I was fine.
You were bored.
Fuck no.
I was happy.
Motherfuckers come to me and say, "It's a new day, Jimmy," talking shit about how it was gonna change.
Shit never fucking changes.
If they had left me up and running when Marlo was on them cell phones, - I'd have had him a year ago.
See? But they can't do the right thing.
It ain't in them.
Now we're back on Marlo's ass, we need to be on him 24/7.
The motherfuckers cut our overtime and they shopped our best surveillance van.
Don't even think about trying to requisition a new fucking digital camera.
They want to do it on the cheap.
Bunk on the prowl.
Hey, Bunky-Bunk, come here.
Jimmy.
Come here, you virile beast.
Come on, Bunk.
Buy me a drink, you whore.
With what? Uh? I'd have thought the bosses would've at least figured out how to keep paying Homicide.
Pete, come on.
Take these slips off me.
I'll pay you 50 cents on the dollar against my tab.
Cash only.
When we get paid, you double your money.
City's never gonna be healthy enough to go all that back pay.
How the fuck are we gonna pay the bar tab? - We could always knock off a liquor store.
G & L on Edmondson.
Thin Plexi, I'd take out the counter man.
I'll cover you.
I got the door, no problem.
Who's gonna be our wheel man? Every plan, a weak link.
I heard they're closing the foreign bureaus - Jo'burg, Beijing, everything.
I heard layoffs as bad as in Philly.
Bullshit, they're not gonna lay off.
They'll offer buyouts first.
If they don't get enough, they'll go right to layoffs.
What the fuck you care? You got all the seniority in the world.
Be a shame to get rid of them twenty-somethings in the newsroom.
Degenerate motherfucker.
Yeah.
Kleppner sure do like to hire them sweet, young things.
Long, straight hair and big traffic-light eyes.
And half of them can't write a lick, can they? Yeah, our esteemed managing editor.
Certainly does favor a certain type, don't he? - Gentlemen - Question mark.
Someday, I want to find out what it feels like to work for a real newspaper.
What? I've got calls out.
You start writing now, and I'm not here ten o'clock tonight reworking your lead.
Reworking my lead? - Come on, Fletch.
Try to make the e-dot deadline for once in your life.
A-matter for the council meeting? - Yeah.
I'll top it with whatever smells fresh, make the double-dot.
They're gonna vote on a homeless ordinance, right? Maybe not.
Nerese is making noises like she might throw it back to committee.
Yeah? Well, find me some news somewhere.
Something's burning.
You, uhwondered what it might be? Hey, I'm not the police reporter.
But you called Twigg, though, right? At least he's a columnist, he's paid to sit on his ass.
What's your excuse? Just left him in the smoking lounge.
Hit him on his cell.
What kind of people stand around watching a fire? Some shameful shit right here.
Where else would you rather be, huh, kids? Hey, Gus.
Hey, Jay.
AP has got something on more cutbacks in city bus lines.
You don't say.
Daily Record had it this morning.
MTA trial balloon.
State desk is covering.
Daily Record.
All right, people, it's two o'clock, I need budget lines in case anybody's threatening to commit an act of daily journalism.
City desk.
Haynes.
You didn't, huh? What the fuck are we supposed to do for centerpiece art? Great.
Wonderful.
Photo didn't get out for the racetrack piece.
What about art for the Hopkins press conference? Scratched it for racetrack.
Hey, Swag, it's me again.
Something's on fire over in East Baltimore.
Surprise me with a nice, pretty picture, huh? Look, what we have is drug violence and plenty of it.
What you have are federal gun statutes that come with a five-year minimum, no parole, and we need to lower our murder rate.
Especially since you shorted your police department budget.
It's no secret we have budget problems, all the more reason for the US Attorney to pitch in.
Officially, my priorities are counterterrorism and political corruption.
So you told me when I asked you for help on those bodies in the vacant houses.
But I'm inclined to provide you with a dozen FBI agents and all the wherewithal they need to work that case.
But we want Clay Davis to go federal.
Our state's attorney has developed that case.
Our state's attorney decides what to do with it.
He seems inclined to keep Mr.
Davis local at this point.
But if you could convince Mr.
Bond to reconsider, we might find the resources not only for the probe of the row-house bodies, but the time to run some of those gun cases for you.
But unless you get Clay Davis, you'll let the killing continue.
Now look, the FBI and the US Attorney's office are not here to do the job that your police department can't.
Don't blame us for your ineffectiveness.
Baltimore is knee deep in blood.
Unless this guy can hang a Democratic legislator, he couldn't give a damn.
And to protect that legislator, who happens to be one of the most corrupt extortion artists in the state, you'll burn every last bridge.
Do you think I give a shit about Clay Davis? I am not protecting him.
Then give him up.
It's Bond's call.
Talk to him.
I have.
And he told your Republican ass to go fuck itself, huh? Well, let me double down on that.
Good luck with your crime problem.
That go well? You know why he wants the Clay Davis investigation so bad? So he can stomp all over the Democratic party and give his asshole Republican golf buddy another four years in the governor's mansion.
So, Bond is keeping the case local to help the party, uh? No.
Bond is keeping the case so that Clay Davis can be a trophy for Bond.
My guess is, our newly elected state's attorney wants to, one day, run for mayor.
Cuts both ways for you, Nerese.
If the Feds get Clay Davis, then the case doesn't give Bond any profile, but if they get him and flip him, Clay might take half the Royce administration with him.
You included, maybe.
Don't you worry about me.
You, on the other hand, just slammed the door on the feds when we need all the help we can get.
That's on them.
Pussy call.
I'm just glad to know Marlo has a hobby.
Take her to her room, you know, let her hit the minibar, watch TV.
When she's settled, we'll take care of the other thing.
I'll use Monk for my ride.
All right, then, moving on to new business.
With John Hopkins buying up everything north of Monument Street and tearing the shit down, I think we all see the writing on the wall in East Baltimore.
Yeah.
They moving the hood out.
Yo, niggers are going across the line to Baltimore County.
Pretty soon, East Baltimore won't be in Essex.
There's a market already along route 40 and down at Turner Station.
And new territory go to who claim it.
No.
Ordinarily so.
But here we got some of our East-side people being displaced, right? I think we need to take care of those most affected.
Meaning you.
Well, I am east side, for the most part.
But I'm talking about Hungry Man and Parker and Ghost.
You know, others beside myself.
Hopkins ain't gonna affect your market share, Marlo.
So for those of us who suffer - All right, I see that.
Why don't you let one of your juniors get a shot to open the county up? Let a fresh face get a shot at it.
No disrespect, son, but how I delegate to my lieutenants is not a co-op concern.
Yeah, but how Slim feel about that, though? How you feel, tall man? Ready to pioneer out there for us? Nah, I'm good where I am.
Marlo, man, you're a little out of order here.
Yeah, well, it's just a thought.
Look, man, what's the percentage breakdown Don't sleep on Marlo.
He up to some shit here.
That was some prime real estate.
It took me six years to build up them corners.
Reginald.
Reginald.
I'm going to work, you know I got night shift all this week.
You know, I could stay down here quiet like, you ain't need to fret.
You don't stay here when I'm not around.
That's our rule.
I'm your brother.
I got nowhere to go when I leave.
Last time I left you alone in my home, you dragged half my kitchen to a pawn shop.
You remember that? But you can keep the door locked, right? I'm down here.
My rules.
You said.
The courthouse? What the fuck? - I'll go in.
Rupert.
What now? - Major crimes is being disbanded.
The detectives return to regular rotation.
I got the word yesterday from command.
The mayor signed off.
They're quietly deep-sixing the investigation into the bodies and Marlo Stanfield.
A money thing? - They're pulling back on everything.
Man hours, equipment, lab work, motor pool.
Every last dollar we can find is being shipped over to plug the school system budget.
Cedric thought he would try to reason with Carcetti, maybe see if we can keep the Stanfield detail, at least.
What about Clay Davis? That's going to grand jury soon.
If they ship Freamon back to homicide, I don't have him on that, either, and Lester pretty much is that case.
Excuse me.
Y'all know where the clerk's office at? - Criminal or civil? - Criminal, definitely.
End of the hall, last door.
Tha'.
When are you meeting the mayor? - About an hour.
They gave me a few minutes on the end of his day.
I'll go with you.
Come by my office and get me.
So, where you off to now? - Motions hearing in part 18.
It's the last thing on my sched.
And for state desk? - Additional cutbacks coming in the city MTA routes.
Trial balloon from the governor.
Affects a lot of people, no? - If it happens.
They floated this once before.
Still, we can go outside and give them the potential impact.
Well, the truth is, we're following the Daily Record on this one.
Why don't we have that? If it's a trial balloon We've been without a transport reporter since the last round of buyouts, so - We should still pick that up.
Probably so, but Just because Chicago tightens its belt, it's no reason for us to fall down.
Their cutbacks there shouldn't affect our ability to put out an excellent product.
Simply have to do more with less.
We have more resources than the Daily Record.
Though not a transport reporter.
Your eminence, slumming at the Metro meeting today? - What do you know? - City desk.
State's attorney complains about the decline in quality police casework, Got the city council tonight.
Won't get a vote on the homeless initiative, but we'll scratch some news out somehow.
Two-car fatal on the Beltway, two overnight murders in the city, and a fire ongoing in a Baltimore City row house for which we may or may not have art.
Regional affairs.
We have the Hopkins piece on biomed, though I'm told we didn't get art on today's press conference.
And 15 inches from the college park stringer on UM not making it's deseg goals again.
I'm told that, numbers aside, the campus has become much more hospitable to minorities.
I'm told things have changed for the better.
Really? As you may know, Gene Robbins is dean of journalism there.
I had lunch with him the other day - Nevertheless, they haven't - .
.
and he was saying how the last few years have really transformed the school's reputation with black faculty and students.
He's a white guy, right? - Who? Journalism fellow.
Dean Wormer, Dean Martin - whatever his name is.
I worked with Gene Robbins in Philadelphia.
He is an excellent journalist and a reliable source.
I think race is, uh, beside the point.
So why don't we hold on the deseg story until we can assign someone to do some more reporting, get a real sense of how UM is perceived by minorities? All right, then.
Let's firm things up.
Take a look at where we stand an hour from now.
Why poke him with a stick? You know who Gene Robbins is.
Who's poking? If I think something about a story, I'm gonna speak on it.
You know what a healthy newsroom is? It's a magical place where people argue about everything all the time.
I'm not poking anyone here.
"Dean Martin"? Yeah, a little poke.
Thank you.
I know that wasn't no court date.
You already got the gun charge postponed twice.
So what the fuck was that about? Remember that Russian we locked up for murder, part of the port case years back? I didn't work that case with you, man.
So, no, I don't remember.
Well, Chris Partlow does.
Miss Gutierrez.
Gutierrez! Get your ass over here.
Yeah.
You say that 120 people were evacuated.
Yeah.
They were.
You can't evacuate people.
I mean, you can, if you want, but that's not what you want to say here.
A building can be evacuated.
To evacuate a person is to give that person an enema.
The details, Miss Gutierrez.
At the Baltimore Sun, - God still resides in the details.
You teach them, Spry.
What are we gonna do with these children today? Fuckety-fuck.
Another burnt doll.
Carlyle again.
Photo.
I'm looking at the fire art from East Baltimore and I got a burnt Barbie in foreground.
Oh, yeah? - Yeah.
And I might actually believe you if it wasn't Carlyle who took it.
No fuckin' way I believe in this picture.
Print me something else.
All right.
Every fire photo he brings in there's got to be some burnt doll somewhere in the debris.
I can see that cheating motherfucker now with his fucking harem of dolls pouring lighter fluid on each one.
You check his fucking trunk, you'll find a whole collection.
What's your lead? Council delays vote on the homeless initiative at Carcetti's behest.
He doesn't want it to look like the city's running the homeless out of downtown, so he asked Nerese to redraft the measure.
He's right.
You don't evacuate people.
What? - Never mind.
Working on anything good? - Just what day cops missed.
A fatal in Charles County and a gas leak downtown.
Briefs, huh? - Quiet day so far.
It's a shit news town.
You think? How many stories go national out of here? Not many.
Those bodies in the houses last year.
That got a lot of play.
And they didn't even solve it, right? The story had no legs at all.
Since then, what else? Jeff.
Jeffy-Jeff.
What? - Come here.
Jesus Christ.
What now? - Did you stay for the zoning bills? - No, I came back here to write.
Check the fucking library.
Shit, check the clips too.
It goes back a-ways.
No, no, no.
Check that.
You go back to the hall, you get the vote on this thing.
Find out who sponsored this.
Find out whether Carcetti or Nerese or whoever's behind it.
You buttonhole them, find out what the hell's going on.
Why? Who's Ricardo Hendrix? A drug dealer.
Fat Face Rick.
Alma, Scott, this property on Baltimore Street is a titty bar the city wants for the Howard Street enterprise zone, but this other property they want to trade with him, I want to find out what that's about.
This is a drug dealer they're trading properties with? He's got a record as long as your arm.
Couple of convictions too.
Go, go.
Get some good quote.
AlmaI want you to go to this address.
It's a strip club called Desperado.
You ask around for the owner.
His name's Ricardo Hendrix.
You tell them until we get a comment, we'll put Ricky on the front page every day.
Who is he? - He's a drug dealer.
But from the look of this, he's running some sort of game at city hall.
We want a comment as to why he's trading property with the city, - what he stands to make off the deal.
Okay.
What do you want from me? Pull clips, check the morgue files, write the A-matter on Ricardo's history.
Wait, she goes to strip clubs and I'm pulling clips in the morgue? - You late for the council meeting? - Looking for you.
Me? I'm racing.
Late for some charity thing at the Walters'.
Mr.
Mayor, I was told I could get a few minutes tonight.
You're on my schedule? - Everything ran late today.
They were supposed to ring you, I think.
What, do it quick or do we resched? Burrell's disbanded the unit that's working the bodies in the houses.
When we're fat with money, you can come back on it.
Investigations are not like that.
You can't just drop one and then pick it up down the road without Colonel, we got no money.
No fucking money at all.
There's nothing we can do until the new fiscal.
But, Tommy, that kills Clay Davis for me and we're about to go to grand jury on it.
Same unit is doing Clay? - I need some profile for my shop.
How much of that unit do you need to bring the case in? A couple of detectives.
I'll tell Rawls you can keep two men for Clay.
The rest is shut down until we can dig out.
I gotta run.
So one thieving politician trumps 22 dead bodies.
Good to know.
To save money, they're not even putting ops cars in the street.
No more two-man patrols.
Jesus, where did the money go? - Schools.
Carcetti didn't want to lay off teachers, so he fucks us instead.
Seems like you got out at the right time, huh? Look at you.
Here's our boy Thomas sporting the latest in downtown businesswear.
An understated ensemble that puts the "b" in subtle.
There's a "b" in subtle? Seriously, you look well, Herc.
I'm doing good, man.
I got more work than I can get to.
It's like once word got around, these fucking lawyers came out of the fucking woodwork.
Which reminds me, I need one of you guys to run a name for me.
Tags, registration and phone.
While you're at it, run a sheeting photo.
'Cause, hey, I'm buying the next round, right? About fucking time! Not used to having money, you kind of forget.
Let's get a round.
How does it read? - It's clean and it bites.
Deserves a front, off-lead, maybe.
And we're saying what? That it's a sweetheart deal for a titty bar owner with a big criminal history.
He sells his existing location to the city for 1.
2 million and they sell him a better piece of real estate to relocate his club five blocks west for 200,000.
He clears a million for laying in the cut.
What's the quid pro quo? We're going through donors in Nerese's campaign committee.
So far, we got 40,000 from Ricardo Hendrix and a bunch of people all using the same address as the bar.
Why wasn't this on your budget? Well, we found it Actually, Jeff Price found it hidden in the zoning bills, bottom of the council agenda.
He caught it late, but he caught it.
All right, front page, below the fold.
Yeah.
Metro desk, Phelps.
Gus, Price for you, line two, and he's got Nerese with him.
Aw, shit, here it comes.
Gus? It's Jeff.
The council president would like a word with you.
On the record? - No.
She's given me her quote.
She wants to talk to you off the record.
Put her on.
This is all perfectly above board.
No doubt, Madam President.
We need this property for redevelopment and it's in the city's interest to allow Mr.
Hendrix to relocate.
Is it in the city's interest to give him a property with twice as much floor space and give him a million dollars for his trouble? Do you think you made it clear to the council that Mr.
Hendrix donated $60,000 to your campaign committee? I don't know, ma'am, where I live, 60,000 buys a lot of goodwill.
Gus.
Hey, Jeff, is that you? I'm putting you on hold for Spry.
Yeah, give him your on the record for Nerese.
Ready? - Yeah.
Shame we couldn't use what she just gave us.
What do you got? Keep running through that campaign finance shit.
There's at least $20,000 in contributions we haven't found yet.
Nerese all but confirmed it.
I'll be back.
Hey, it's me.
Yeah, we're going late tonight.
Fine.
No, I'm not.
I'm just tired, is all.
I slur when I'm tired.
That's all.
Yeah.
Night.
Blue tops, on the rocks.
Blue tops.
Blue tops.
Blue tops, get 'em while they hot.
Come and get your blue tops.
Bubs, yo.
Hulk? It was a great pull at deadline.
Hey, any night a Baltimore politician calls you a son of a bitch is a good night.
Am I right? Hey, and that was a good pull by Alma, getting that quote from Fat Face Rick for the home final.
"Hey, I'm a businessman.
City wants to help me out, I ain't gonna argue.
" Sweet.
Thank you.
How'd you get him to talk to you? I just walked in, sat down, watched the dancers for a few minutes, and he came over to me.
Thought I was looking for a job.
You deserve more than a contributing line for that.
I don't know, a contrib line is cool.
You can't go far on contrib lines.
Where do you want to go? Times or Post.
Where else? I don't know.
This is still a pretty good paper.
I brought it to the mayor personally, but they're throwing their last dollars into patrol and crime suppression.
You think being on Marlo and his people every damn day for a year isn't crime suppression? We lowered the body count just by sitting on these people.
They know they're hot, huh? - After a year? Look.
Promises were made to me, as well.
I was told a new day was coming.
Clearly, this isn't it.
Where are we going, then? You and McNulty are back to the Homicide rotation.
Dozerman is temporarily assigned to tactical.
Lieutenant, you're going to fill a vacancy in the Northern, 4 to 12 shift.
Freamon, Sydnor, you two are assigned to the state's attorney's office to help grand-jury the Clay Davis thing.
When the money starts to flow, I'll get you all back on this somehow.
Sorry.
Wonder what it feels like to work in a real fucking police department.
Obliged.
When did this break last night? Gus saw it on the council agenda around 9:30.
It's a good fucking story.
Hey.
Hey.
Who's doing the react piece? - Jeff will, why? I'm just, uh I need a story.
I'm up.
Yeah.
Stay hungry like that.
Good things come when they come.
It's two o'clock, people.
I need budget lines.
There are a million stories in the naked city, but today you poor mooks only need to throw me three or four.
The Orioles will not pay for pitcher.
I should have never left the Bronx.
You see this? - What? One of our clients on the front page.
Represent Tiger Woods? All it cost me was a round of beers.
They fucking love me in the department.
I'm a fucking martyr is what I am.
Pull over some black minister, piss him off and I lose my fucking job.
One round? You, a prominent defense investigator, let these other guys buy a round of drinks ever? Kid, it's time you learned a little something about the expense account.
That's my desk.
What the fuck you saying? The prodigal son.

You know how that go, right? Gave myself all these little rules about what I wouldn't do.
Like, I told myself I'd do a lot of shit to get high, but I swore I wouldn't never trick.
So, after I'm trickin' I thought, "This ain't so bad.
I'll do this for a while "except I'll make some more rules for myself, like "I'm gonna use condoms, and I'm never gonna go "with more than one guy at the same time," and Well, let's just say there are certain things I told myself I wouldn't never do.
You know what my disease did to my rules, right? Yeah.
Whatever it is you tell yourself you won't do to get high, you're pretty much making a list of everything you will do as soon as your inner addict tells you to.
I mean, that bitch wants to kill me.
She does.
Even on my way here today, she was telling me not to come.
She was tellin' me that I was all right on the street, that it was all good.
Um Yeah, I'm about done.
I want to thank you all for letting me share.
Amen.
Thanks for sharing, Dee Dee.
Always lift us.
We got finished a little early.
Anybody else feel like sharing? How about you, Bubs? Haven't heard from you in a while.
Get up there! Come on, Bubs.
All right, Bubbles.
Hi - You know who I am.
Hey, Bubs.
Bubs.
Bubbles.
What's up, Bubbles? - I'm a grateful addict.
Hi, Bubbles.
Been clean 15 months Thursday.
This is the longest I been off.
I, um Hey, yo! Let's go! I used to get so high, you know.
I used to love to be high.
Y'all see me out there on Monroe and Fayette doin' the dope-fiend lean, right? Be like this here.
I come out of it, get a little more upright.
Realize people treatin' me like a lamppost, hangin' fliers on me an' shit.
Come winter, little kids hangin' Christmas balls on me like a damn tree.
Summertime, they'd walk me over to the garden, where the 9-till-9 used to be.
Make me Make me a scarecrow.
Yeah.
I used to love to get high.
Got to the point You know, I'm not in the right place to talk about this right now.
Keep comin' back, Bubs.
Thanks, Bubs.
Thanks for sharing.
Is there anybody else with a burning desire to share? Marvin? When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole It's quiet up in here.
Mm-hm.
You got the Bank of America accounts? That pile there.
So, he claims to be raising money for some basketball program or day-care center.
And the money comes in, and the money goes out.
But no hoops, no day care.
Okay, so say we get Clay Davis, and say he flips - Well, then he takes us up the ladder.
To who? If Clay is stealing from his own nonprofits That's an easy case for us to make with all the paperwork we got here.
That's a straight-up theft, maybe a tax charge or two, but there's money that all this paperwork only hints at, money that doesn't show up on a campaign finance report.
My guess is that Clay Davis knows about that too.
I don't know, man.
I like street work more.
You'd rather sit in a surveillance van days on end waiting to catch Tater handing Pee Wee a vial? This, Detective, is what you're telling me? A case like this here, where you show who gets paid behind all the tragedy and the fraud, where you show how the money routes itself, how we're all, all of us vested, all of us complicit? Career case, huh? Baby, I could die happy.
Still, man I wonder what Marlo is up to right fucking now.
Celebrating.
Yeah, but they still taking pictures? No.
I ain't feel nothing in a while.
We took care that thing over the Eastside.
They ain't on me.
Snoop, she been rolling around all week.
Nothing, no cars, no vans, no helicopters.
Monk, he checked after the re-up, no problem.
We wore 'em down.
Well, what about cameras? Nothing since the camera we took out the wall back at the place.
My overnight man, he been watchin', he ain't seen nothing either.
'Sides, I think we good as long as we movin' around like this.
Back to bidness, I say.
She ain't had no work in a few months.
She somewhat eager.
Goddamn right.
Too much fuckin' talkin' around here lately, man.
Niggers need to shut the fuck up.
For real.
A'ight, first thing.
We go hard at Webster Franklin's crew.
Gave 'em the chance to get on our tit, he passed.
Now we bang on his corners a couple of times till he fold.
Now you talkin'.
Yeah.
Next, we step to June Bug for talkin' that shit.
He was a dead man when he opened his mouth.
He just walkin' around not knowing it.
An' I want that dicksucker.
Took my money and the whole world know? Nah.
He got to fall.
Omar rolled out in retirement and shit.
I'm hearin' somewheres south.
Bring his ass back out of retirement.
A'ight.
Yeah, a'ight.
We can step that shit up, but he's goin' to be comin' at us like we comin' at him.
I mean, Joe and them, they said let that be.
The crown ain't worth much if the nigger wearin' it always gettin' his shit took, and Joe oughta know that.
Let him come.
Yeah.
What up with that thing down at Jessup? - Yeah, yeah.
You on the list.
Go on down there any time you want.
No problem.
That's the dude right there.
A'ight.
Ya hear? Time for y'all to earn your pay, niggers.
Hey, Walon.
I'm like, "What the fuck? What the hell do I look like?" Funny how you started out.
What you mean? - Dope-fiend lean and all.
Why didn't you keep going? You know, you hear a lot of funny shit in these rooms, people makin' fun of their mistakes, makin' people laugh, but in-between all the jokes, there's a lot of truth to be spoke.
Like that girl today.
She damn near bled out, didn't she? - Yeah.
You know, for a second there, I thought you might actually stand up and talk about Sherrod.
"A searching and fearless moral inventory.
" That's the step.
Don't tell me about that.
I live with that every fuckin' day, man.
You got to let it out to let it go.
I'm your sponsor, and I'm telling you, you got to get out of your head, - outside yourself.
I ain't never missed a meeting.
I'm not talking about the meetings.
I'm talking about where you go after the meetings.
I'm talking about what you do, what you think, what you feel.
I don't feel nothing.
That was never your problem.
Not even as a low-bottom dope fiend, that was never the problem.
It would be a fuckin' shame to make it the problem now.
So Carcetti threw us a bone, huh? Took the cap off secondary employment.
Yeah.
Even I may have to go out and find honest work.
There's no money to be made in this policing shit.
They made that clear enough.
What are you qualified to do? Aside from that, I mean.
You know I got an in on the eight-to-four gig over at Friedman's Jewelry, you know, off of Reisterstown.
Yeah, 20 an hour.
Stand around with some shiny shit and get paid.
Work murders and starve.
Fuck kind of shit is that? Anything from overnight or this morning? Yeah, midnight shift caught one.
Solved? - Open.
Bar cutting from Curtis Bay.
Fahlteich's over at the morgue now.
Slow night.
Oh, I'm sure things will be picking up now we're no longer sitting on Marlo Stanfield.
It wasn't my call to suspend the investigation, Jimmy.
That decision came from your shop.
Yeah, but nobody from the SA's office objected, did they? Just like nobody objected when Chris and Snoop got their gun charges postponed a couple of times.
A postponement or two is pro forma on Calvert Street.
You know that.
Pro forma, from the Latin, meaning lawyers jacking each other off.
Rules are the rules, Jimmy.
There are no fucking rules.
Fucking game's rigged.
Gentlemen.
Why the fuck chew on Ronnie's arm, huh? She ain't the problem.
Tired of being jerked around.
I think I'm gonna get me a secondary job at that cigar shop on Baltimore Street.
As what? - Homicide.
The Indian out front? I'd like to scalp your ass, motherfucker.
Got it.
Who's up? There you go, givin' a fuck when it ain't your turn to give a fuck.
He's a pissy little bitch today.
I'm worried for the boy.
Ow! Some good news for a change, the test scores for third-graders going up a good 15 points.
That's what I get for 54 million? Hey, you can run on that.
Whatever bump in the test scores I get, I got to run on it.
I sure as hell can't campaign on the crime rate.
Burrell already told us we don't have a double-digit decline.
A small drop, most likely.
Until we take back the statehouse, this city will starve.
I get to Annapolis, and whoever I leave behind as mayor - Bond, Campbell, or who knows - they're gonna have a better time of it.
It's not gonna be Nerese if she keeps goin' like she has.
Sun papers made her look bad.
Yeah.
She tells me this real estate flip was a holdover from the last administration.
True as far as it goes, but she got herself paid as well.
She looked bad enough that it'll cost you votes, people who don't want to make you governor if that means Nerese finishes your term as mayor.
She makes you vulnerable.
What, can I ask, makes the governor vulnerable? He looked like a petulant little bitch with that diatribe on Olesker.
He looked paranoid too.
What about his failure on slots? With a Democratic assembly, everyone expects a GOP governor will take his lumps.
Besides, voters are split on legalizing slots.
It has to hit him directly.
Well, I'll see what's on the mind of the PG County boys tonight.
I got dinner with Steny, Miller and Maloney down in Upper Marlboro, - which reminds me - You're late to meet Jen.
Doesn't this seem a little thin to you, running for governor two years into a four-year term? Everything's thin.
The whole world shines shit and calls it gold.
So Somerville, he keeps going back to ask Tommy the elder follow-ups, right? One question after another his editor wants him to ask.
Somerville, knocking on big Tommy's door, blaming the city desk, saying, "I'm sorry to bother you, Mr.
Mayor, but my desk wants to know.
" - Shit, I see it coming.
So, three or four times, right? "My desk is wondering I'm sorry to bother you, Mr.
Mayor, "but my desk wants to know.
" So finally, finally, Tommy D'Alesandro, he puts his ear down to his desk like this, and he says "My desk tells your desk to go fuck itself.
" - That really happen? - Too good a story to check out.
Hey.
What's my favorite GA reporter have today for his favorite editor? Heartbreaker from Eastside.
Salt-of-the-earth single mother of four dies from allergic reaction to blue crabs.
Ate them all her life but goes face down in a lump backfin platter, pronounced an hour later at Hopkins, and the sister is starting a scholarship fund for the kids.
Interviewed the whole family.
Photos, the works.
Attaboy.
Round it off with some medical stuff on seafood toxicity, huh? - Growing incidence, all that good shit.
All right, cool.
You ever notice how mother of four is always catching hell? Murder, hit-and-run, burned up in row-house fire, swindled by bigamists.
Tough gig, mother of four.
Innocent bystander is worse.
He's always getting the short end.
Not a lot of them around anymore.
Not a lot of innocence either, you ask me.
You know who there's less of? Statuesque blondes.
You don't read about statuesque blondes in the newspapers anymore.
Buxom ones, neither.
They're like a lost race.
What do you got next? School project meeting.
Mr.
Whiting builds his Pulitzer.
Okay.
Now I've seen everything.
Why not call a cab, at least? If I thought these motherfuckers would reimburse me, I would have.
So Homicide can't shop cars neither.
We're down to two working units.
One was at the morgue with Fahlteich, the other was on a fresh call.
Jesus.
What a joke.
grandmother to many, lived alone.
Not seen in two days, so the neighbor called.
No forced entry.
You the first officer? Had to kick in the back door.
You call for crime lab? - We're on the list.
Today's list? Fucking crime lab too, huh? They've cut everything to the bone.
Been here maybe a couple of days.
If it was warmer, she'd have bloated.
Yeah, it's probably natural.
I just didn't like the way she looked laying there with the pillow and all.
Yeah, I bet she died in her sleep.
You ever wake up with a pillow over your face? There's mornings with a hangover I hold the pillow over my face, just to keep the light out and the pain down.
Me, I just throw up once or twice and go to work.
The Western District way.
The word I'm thinking about is Dickensian.
We want to depict the Dickensian lives of city children, and then show clearly and concisely where the school system has failed them.
Not to defend the school system, but a lot of things have failed those kids.
They're marginalized long before they walk into class.
To look at who these kids really are, look at the parenting, or lack of it, in the city.
The drug culture, the economics of these neighborhoods.
Yet the schools are something that we can address.
Sure, we can beat up on city schools.
Lord knows they deserve to be beat on every once in a while, but then we're just as irrelevant to these kids as the schools are.
I mean, it's like you're up on a corner of a roof and you're showing some people how a couple of shingles came loose, and meanwhile, a hurricane wrecked the rest of the damn house.
You don't need a lot of context to examine what goes on in one classroom.
Really? I think you need a lot of context to seriously examine anything.
No.
I think Scott is on the right track.
We need to limit the scope, not get bogged down in details.
To do what? To address the problem or to win a prize? - I mean, what are we doing here? - Look, Gus, I know the problems.
My wife volunteers in a city school, but what I want to look at is the tangible, where the problem and solution can be measured clearly.
There's more impediments to learning than a lack of materials - or a dysfunctional bureaucracy.
But who's going to read that? What is this series about in a sentence? What's the budget line? Johnny can't write 'cause Johnny doesn't have a fucking pencil.
Augustus, I'm not as simple-minded as you might think.
Now what do you want, an educational project or a litany of excuses? I don't want some amorphous series detailing society's ills.
If you leave everything in, soon you've got nothing.
I think the schools are ripe for exploration, and I think Scott might be the man to lead the charge.
You ain't doin' nothin' but aggravatin' me now.
Get up in this house before I beat the black off your ass.
Get up in here, fool.
Come on.
Treena.
Treena.
Wait for me.
I'm-a come back out.
Stay right here.
Don't move.
Come on, girl.
Wooton, you dump in the numbers from the port story yet? Oh, shit.
I forgot.
You want - Give them to me.
I'll put them in.
Overall, cargo is down by 12 points, but roll-on, roll-off gained 6.
4% last year.
A'ight.
Drop 12, ro-ro's up 6.
4.
Thanks, got it.
Boss man on your six.
Whiting? - Worse.
Klebanow.
Augustus.
Who's the lead for opening day tomorrow? Not the game story but the color piece.
Luxenberg wanted to go with McGuire.
I think Scott would do an excellent job with the color piece.
I'd really like to find some chaw-chewing old-timer who'd die rather than miss the O's opener, someone who says "baseball", you know? You're the boss.
Scott, put your special touch on it, like you did with your Preakness piece last year.
Good luck to you.
Thanks.
Fuck.
What's wrong? - It's all right, go back to sleep, baby.
Metro desk.
Hey, Spry, it's me.
Hey, is the night man still on the copy desk? Sure is.
You need to make a change? Yeah, yeah, I just want to check on the port story.
I think I might have transposed some numbers.
Andy, can I get port back? Yeah, sure.
We got time on the final.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
Somewhere down in the A-matter, a graph about the cargo trends with percentages.
Ro-ro, cargo - Read that back to me.
Cargo down 12%, ro-ro up 6.
4.
and a 6.
4 bump on the ro-ro? Yep, that's it.
Shit.
I woke up in a sweat 'cause I thought I'd fucked that up.
You sure? Tonight, you had the usual deadline nightmare to no actual purpose.
I guess you're better at this than you thought.
Yeah, I guess.
Thanks, Jay.
Any time.
Good night.
The husband's thinking, "Gosh.
" I mean, the police show up at his door and say, "The lady you married from the Ukraine, "A, she's dead, B, she's got a 2005 gold Mercedes" How long till my old lady? It's gonna be a while.
Got my hands full.
I'm across the street for breakfast.
There's only one way to rule.
Come on.
Bullshit.
This is not a murder.
He overdosed.
Look, we found his gear on the bathroom floor, and his girlfriend, who called 911, said the two of them were firing.
I don't have the tox results yet, but even if they find heroin, it'd be a secondary cause.
I've got petechials, I've got bruising around the neck.
My preliminary is homicide by mechanical asphyxia.
Okay, fine.
I'll fucking bring the paramedic in here, and he'll fucking explain it to you himself.
Yeah, that's right.
I'm going to go all the way out to Dundalk, drag his ass in here so you can hear it from him, 'cause I ain't taking this as a murder.
Hey, Jimmy.
Hey, Nancy.
How's tricks? - Heard you were working murders again.
Yeah.
How's life in the County? - Worse every year.
You guys can't keep all the dirt on your side of the line.
What's Kevin so hot about? Oh, new cutter's dug her heels in, says it's a murder.
It's not, but I can see why she'd think strangulation.
Guy's got a fractured hyoid, petechiae in both eyes, but it's a freak thing.
If we weren't there to see it, I wouldn't have believed it myself.
It's all postmortem.
He fires up a speedball, then blacks out, falls between toilet and bathtub, manages to get himself wedged back pretty good.
I couldn't make this shit up.
Medics come, pronounce him right then and there.
But get this - they can't pry the guy out without grabbing hold of his neck for leverage.
We watched them do it.
This Dundalk medic and the morgue guy just grab his neck and start yanking.
Finally they get him out, he comes down here looking like a strangle job.
They can't tell that it's postmort? On a fresh body, no one can.
Grab a guy too hard, and you can cause petechiae, break a hyoid, even leave bruising, all after death.
Fuck me.
Yeah.
So Infante's about to lose his mind if he can't talk this thing out of becoming a murder.
Either that or charge the paramedic.
You goin' across the street for breakfast? - Buy me some scrapple, sailor? - Come on.
Number two.
Surprise.
My man Sergei thought we should talk first.
Talk about what? That's on you, young 'un.
Whatever business you tryin' to do through the Russians, you got to go through me first.
Yeah? - Yeah.
'Cause up in this bitch here, I'm what you might consider an authority figure.
You know, everybody got to get my help or ask my advice, like, on all kinds of shit.
Sergei step to me the other day sayin' this nigger Marlo, who he don't even know, just be sending him cash money to get on his visiting list.
So, then he ask me if I knew Marlo.
I tell him, "Hell, yeah, I know Marlo real well.
" You know? Over Westside, everybody know everybody, right? Let me help you find your tongue.
You tryin' to get to the Russian so you can get a line to his people.
You tryin' to get to the Greek motherfuckers because if you can you want to cut Proposition Joe and all them other Eastside bitches out the connect.
I mean, you a natural businessman, right? But this is the thing, though, and I mean, you know, I'm with you on all that as far as it goes, you know? Westside definitely need to stick together, you know what I mean? And all the fuss about you comin' at me - I say let bygones be bygones, but fuck all them Eastside bitches.
That's just the way I feel about it.
I got nothin' but love in my heart for Westside niggers, nothin' but love.
Of course, I mean, you know, I got to have my taste too.
Figured that.
So send my sister a hundred large, and the next time you come to Jessup, it won't be my grill talkin' at you.
My word on that.
A hundred large, huh? So what's up, man? What's up with you otherwise, you know? The game is the game.
Always.
They do not.
You're making that shit up.
I'm looking for you, Jimmy.
Hey, what's up? You know Nancy Porter from the County? - Lester Freamon.
Good to meet you.
Well, thanks for breakfast.
I'll see you downstairs.
I spent last night sitting on that same McCulloh Street lot.
They went back there? - Twice.
Once in the early evening and once again after three.
They're getting sloppy, Jimmy, especially now they think we've backed away.
You know, a few good bugs, a couple of small surveillance cameras, some man-hours, two weeks, three the most, that's all this fucking case needs.
Daniels can't give us that.
He made that pretty fucking clear.
Then we go elsewhere.
Right field, number 21, Nick Markakis.
Going to the game? Long-time O's fan? I could care less about opening day at this point.
Between Bud Selig and Barry Bonds, they've ruined baseball for me.
You have a minute to talk? - Late to meet somebody.
How can you commit to a sport where the commissioner justifies a labor lockout and cancels the World Series? How long you been an O's fan? Actually, I grew up with the Cubs, but my son, he kind of likes them so And then on steroids, which has destroyed what's left of baseball's credibility, he's nowhere to be found.
So, you an Orioles fan? Are you excited that it's opening day because something like that is Fuck baseball! Peanuts! Get your peanuts! Hey, Bubs, how you doin'? Have a seat all the way around the other side.
Much obliged.
Stop crying.
Don't grab stuff off my plate.
Mommy's going to whup you.
Do you need some help here? Because we don't do that here.
In our house, there's no hitting anyone, especially children.
Do you understand me? Sorry I'm late.
Traffic's a nightmare.
Think you're funny, huh? Think I still don't have All right, I get the point, fuckholes.
Fuck you both, already.
A couple more years of this, you'll be ready for a radio car.
Why is it you can't come up to my office and do this like grown-ups? They still make you sign in at the front desk out Woodlawn? Who'd you knuckleheads piss on this time? We're still working the edges of something the bosses shut down.
Yeah, what are we talking about? - The bodies in the vacants.
They shut that down? Jesus Christ.
What, 22 murders doesn't rate? Not anymore.
You were on it more than a year.
Where were you? Too close to quit.
You know Marlo Stanfield, Chris Partlow, Snoop Pearson? Those names ring out.
Well, we got nothing back from any lab work, there's no witnesses, nothing to make a murder prosecution, so we settled in, sat on them for about a year.
You got a pattern? - A good one.
Two or three weeks with some good FBI cameras and wires, - maybe a half-dozen agents - Like we tell you boys when the case broke, we aren't much into ghetto drug shit anymore.
Most of our guys are counter-terror and political stuff.
We already did all the long legwork.
Two or three weeks, you guys end up with a big headline.
You federal fucks like headlines.
I'll run it up the flagpole.
I'm gonna drive away now.
All right.
If it's okay with you two suckholes.
Welcome back to Camden Yards.
As we mentioned a moment ago, the Orioles know I got good stuff.
Hang on.
Come here and tell me, so I can put it on the budget.
I got a kid in a wheelchair outside the stadium, wanting to go to the game but unable because he didn't have the money for a scalped ticket.
Sounds pretty good.
You got art? Photo said they were too booked with the game.
This is your main color piece.
You got to have a picture of the kid if he's your lead.
Can we send them out now? - I guess.
He probably rolled out, but you can try.
Shit.
How old is this fella? - 13.
What's with his parents? Why wasn't he in school? What, in this city? He just cut.
So what about his parents? - Both dead.
No shit.
He lives with his aunt in West Baltimore.
How'd he get in the wheelchair? Something about a stray gunshot.
It was all pretty vague.
You got a date when it happened? He was a little hinky with telling me much.
Fact is, he would only let me go with his nickname.
Look.
I got to start writing if you want it for the e-dot.
Yeah.
Why don't you work in Metro Write so I can read over your shoulder? Hey, Scott.
What he go by, the nickname? - EJ.
EJ.
Hey, Jane, come here a minute.
Check clips for the last three years.
See if we got anything on a kid in the city wounded by a stray bullet.
He'd be 13 now.
Nickname of EJ.
Could be his initials.
Who is he to us? He's the lead of our opening-day piece.
I'd love to get art on the kid.
Don't hold your breath.
It's a hell of a case, really.
And God knows they could use the help.
Sorry I'm late.
Anything up? - Just the usual.
You all right? - Yeah.
We do this right, it is like a spiral.
We start on the outside of the circle, and we work our way around the edges, pick up everything we can before we get to Clay and the people he keeps close.
You think Clay knows the indictment's coming? Clay Davis has been waiting for the other shoe to drop his whole life.
He knows.
And it's your people up in my shit.
Not no feds, not no state people from Annapolis.
It's motherfuckers from my own city.
My hands are tied here, Clayton.
It's a new mayor, a new state's attorney.
I'm out there doing the Lord's work for you, Erv.
You know it.
Who got that pay raise through the council? Just enough for you to get that new patio but not enough for that guy from Pittsburgh to take your place.
I wish I could.
You know I wish I could, but with Carcetti in, people are watching.
I got eyes on me now.
You the commissioner still, right? Yeah, but it ain't like it was.
If you don't control it, who does? On this, I got to reach around Daniels, and he's Carcetti's boy.
Look.
This is a grand jury investigation, for God's sake.
We could both be charged with obstruction of justice.
God damn it, Erv.
I been there for you, carried water for you, and you do me like this? Clay, I can't.
Nobody could.
You think I'm goin' down, don't you? You-you-you think I'm done.
All y'all ungrateful bitches thinkin' you can throw me out the boat.
Clay.
A'ight! I'm gonna remember this moment, Erv.
I'm gonna hold on to this moment.
Yeah.
Clay crying to you? Like I could put brakes on this mess.
Is that Yeah.
Straight from P and R.
And that's with the numbers bent as far as we dare.
With city hall asking for clean stats, there's only so much we can do.
The hell are we gonna tell the mayor? I sat there for half an hour with him and his deputy.
He knows what he's saying no to.
Then how the fuck - It's personal, Jimmy.
Somebody at city hall really pissed off the US Attorney.
You're kidding me.
No, and I got an earful.
You tell Lester I'm still trying to figure out what the problem is, but for right now, you forget about shopping this case anywhere.
DEA, ATF, Customs - you guys are shut out across the board.
Fish and fucking Wildlife couldn't help you.
Sorry, brother.
The kid is nowhere to be found.
I sent photo down there to try to dig him up.
Nothing.
Probably left.
Okay.
So we got a poor black kid in a wheelchair with no ticket.
He rolls himself from somewhere in West Baltimore to to "the shadow of the mighty brick-faced coliseum known as Oriole Park, "listening to the cheers from the crowd, which told the whole tale.
" We're gonna give good play to a 13-year-old known only as EJ, who declines to give his name because he skipped school, he's got no parents, he lives with his aunt.
I'm not saying that this kid isn't everything you say he is, but, Scott, damn, as an editor, I need a little more to go on if I'm gonna fly this thing.
I resent the implication.
I'm not implying anything.
I'm on your side.
But the standard for us has to be Scott, just finished your story.
Good read.
I'm putting it out front.
I think you've really captured the disparity of the two worlds in this city in a highly readable narrative.
I wouldn't change a word.
Thanks, but I'm not sure everyone shares your enthusiasm.
Jim, aren't you just a little bit concerned that we don't even have a last name for this kid? I thought we held ourselves up to a It's not an ideal situation, no, but the boy's reluctance to give his last name clearly stems from his fear of being discovered as a truant.
You have a problem with it? A little bit, yeah.
I'm just saying that the standards that I think we're on terra firma here.
Gotcha.
The man made a call.
You're good to go.
Thanks, Scott.
The nigger Webster's shop right there.
So look, I'm gonna roll up, and y'all gonna pop out and pop off.
Drop who you can.
Yo.
Let's go all West Coast with this.
Say what? Drive-by.
That's how they do.
Drop a motherfucker and not slow down.
Like Boyz n the Hood.
Shit was tight, remember? - Yo, there you go.
What's up? Man, I ain't even hit near one of them.
This nigger's wound.
Fuck them West Coast niggers, 'cause in B-more, we aim to hit a nigger, you heard.
Guy leaves two dozen bodies scattered all over the city, no one gives a fuck.
It's because who he dropped.
True that.
You can go a long way in this country killing black folk.
Young males especially.
Misdemeanor homicides.
If Marlo was killing white women.
White children.
Tourists.
One white ex-cheerleader tourist missing in Aruba.
Trouble is, this ain't Aruba, bitch.
You think that if 300 white people were killed in this city every year, they wouldn't send the 82nd Airborne? Negro, please.
There's got to be some way to make them turn on the faucet.
Come on, Jimmy.
You're the smartest boy in the room.
You come up with something in this broke-ass city.
Isn't he married or some shit now? Did you edit this opening-day piece? Whiting himself blessed it as written before I could take a meat ax to it.
Did it bother you that we don't have the boy's full name? Yes, Rebecca, it did.
Huh.
Don't give me that "huh".
Whiting wasn't buying any problem I had.
No art of the kid? None.
Huh.
How long we been here? More than an hour.
Why you think we sitting here? See who home and who not who on the block, police and whatnot.
That's right.
You don't ever want to be the last man to a party.
You feel me? That's why I show up to a job an hour before.
Sometimes two.
I don't want nobody settin' up on me while I'm settin' up on them.
Mm.
'Cause there ain't no good thing about motherfuckin' surprises in this line of work.
Why we doin' June Bug anyway? Heard he called Marlo a dicksuck.
Talkin' shit like that.
You heard? You ain't sure? People say he said it.
Don't matter if he said it or not.
People think he said it.
Can't let that shit go.
Why not? I mean, Marlo ain't suck no dick, right? So, if Marlo knows he ain't suck dick, then what the fuck he care what June Bug say? What anybody say? Why this boy got to get dead, just for talking shit? 'Cause he got a big motherfuckin' mouth, that's why, and you need to stop runnin' your own mouth, young 'un.
There it is.
And all the muscle he got.
See it? - You ready? Mm-hm.
Now you handle that thing.
You give me a sign, meet me out front.
Michael, you go round the alley.
Body come bustin' out the back, you drop that shit.
Oh, shitfuck.
Bunk's usually the one throwing up.
You took aspirin? Six.
How was that brunette? Must have been a decent ride 'cause he never went home.
Same shirt as yesterday, Jimmy.
You catchin' hell from Beadie? No.
Just asking.
Gentlemen.
DOA, Central and Baltimore.
I took a call two days ago.
The old lady? That wasn't a call.
That came back natural.
Look.
I'm hung over, Jay.
Both of you.
You're up.
Mommy.
Mommy! 'Sup, Boris? You know who I am? I'm that rich uncle been putting all that money in your canteen account.
In my country, I was in jail four years.
In my country, this is not prison.
This is nothing.
I don't need money.
I don't need fucking canteen.
I don't need you.
Gangbanger.
A'ight.
I feel that.
I feel that, but Avon over there, he thinks you might be able to help get a message to the Greeks, to Vondas.
I mean, seeing as you don't need my money Vondas might be happy to have it.
He don't want to see me, he won't, but if he do, it's you that made it happen.
Hey.
Hey, man.
Sonny Mays is running late.
Can you fill in as speaker? It's time to share, Bubs.
Nah, I don't think so.
I'm not feeling so good today, you know? As your sponsor, I'm telling you, you got to step up for something.
I don't care what, I don't care if it's in these rooms or not, but there ain't no laying in the cut on this shit.
You got to step up somewhere.
Detective, can I get a word? Anything? Anything on the suspects? Maybe on your way out, then.
Back door was open.
Can't tell if he ran through and out the rear.
They.
Unless the shooter put a bullet in her head for good measure after the shotgun.
Also, two of our street cameras were disabled.
Wires ripped.
Fuck.
That's a whole lot of thinking for any motherfucker to do something like this.
How the fuck? How? He must have been in that closet the whole time.
No one heard shit.
Call DSS.
Now.
Any media out back? Bring a cage car around.
Hey.
How you doing? Look, I don't know what I can do to help.
I'm just tryin' to find my way.
Seein' how crowded it is, maybe I could help you hand out tickets.
That's fine, Bubs, really, but wouldn't you rather serve? Huh? Serve lunch.
You mean give the food to people? Isn't that the best part? Nah, I can't.
No.
All right.
Come on.
We can always use an extra set of hands.
He fell out.
Last bottle of smoke probably did him in.
Another drunk found him, pulled me off post.
You call for a crime lab? - The wait's two to three hours.
Shit gets worse every day.
Jimmy? You okay? Go get yourself a coffee, do your paperwork, get back on the street.
We got it from here.
We're gonna wait on them anyway.
Go ahead.
Thanks.
Don't let this guy go anywhere.
I forgot something in the car.
Bring the paper in, will you? We're gonna be here a while.
Hey.
Little early for that, ain't it? What the fuck you doing? Just watch the door, Bunk.
Shit.
Whoa, come on, Jimmy.
Get a fuckin' grip.
Jimmy.
Have you lost your fucking mind? Oh, Jesus Christ, you sick fuck.
Oh.
There's a serial killer in Baltimore.
He preys on the weakest among us.
He needs to be caught.
I'm going.
I don't want a part of this.

Type quieter, asshole.
Early relief.
So get the fuck out of here.
Jesus, Bunk.
What time is it? - 4:30.
I couldn't sleep, so get the fuck gone.
What time did McNulty leave last night? Never did.
He's in number one.
Pulling his hair out over some shit.
Think again about what the fuck you're doing.
Bunk, this can work.
It can.
Fuck you.
I mean that.
Jimmy, four in the fuckin' morning? So it is.
All of these? Homeless murders from the last five years.
Everything before that is on microfilm, but we got enough right here.
Jimmy.
Most of it open.
We don't do so well with homeless killings.
Transient locales, no nearest, no dearest.
No one gives a fuck.
Cases stay open forever.
You're going to jail behind this shit.
Yes, you are.
You know what they do to police in jail? Pretty police like yourself? Motherfucker, we have kids.
Houses.
Car payments.
Furniture.
Jimmy, I just bought brand-new lawn chairs and a glass patio table.
Now, you don't buy no shit like that if you planning to lose your job and go to prison.
You won't even get past the ME.
Watch me.
You're dumping murders on us that we can't solve, - you're fucking the squad's clearance rate.
Fuck the fucking numbers already.
The fucking numbers destroyed this fucking department.
Landsman and his clearance rate can suck a hairy asshole.
Marlo ain't worth it, man.
Nobody is.
Marlo's an asshole.
He does not get to win.
We get to win.
This case doesn't go away just because the bosses can't find the money to pay for it.
These are fucking murders - ghetto murders, but still I came back out of the Western to work this case because they said it would be worked.
I came back out on a promise, and they're gonna keep that promise.
Whether they know it or not.
I'm gonna tell Landsman.
Yeah.
You keep on with it, I'm gonna rat you out.
Well, you do what you got to do.
My name is nowhere in the file.
I don't want fuck to do with this.
Hey, Bunk.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole - What are you doing? - Final is out.
I want to see my story.
Now? - It's my first time out front.
I want to see it.
This is why we should get home delivery.
Why pay for it when I get it for free at the office? Be back.
Brother Ray.
God rest ye.
When does the Sun get here? Around now usually.
Anybody got a working car? I got one, but I'm going back out to my crime scene for a canvass.
Drop me at the ME? Jimmy.
My office, now.
I'll get a lift over from one of the central cars.
This is way past any shit you ever pulled in your life, Jimmy.
Think on it.
You see Greggs out there, bagging evidence alone, then going back out to recanvass on a triple? A triple fucking murder, a home invasion, and she's working it alone.
They pulled Crutchfield this morning, put him back in the rotation.
That's on them, but you can't - Fucking right, that's on them.
A triple murder, and 12 hours later they leave one detective alone on it? I guess she's lucky she has a car.
This shit won't work.
Then we're no worse than before.
Extra red name or two on the board.
Yeah, unless you got caught.
Who in this fucking unit is gonna catch me? Most of the guys up here couldn't catch the clap in a Mexican whorehouse.
What's with the red ribbon? Barlow had an open strangle a few years back.
Homeless guy with a red ribbon tied around his wrist.
So that's two.
Also, I found an open homeless case which Ray Cole worked.
I wrote a ribbon into his office reports.
So there's three.
Our guy didn't have a red ribbon.
That's where I'm headed.
Jesus.
Listen to yourself! Upstairs wouldn't jump on a real serial killer - fuckin' Marlo, who's got bodies all over him.
Maybe they need the make-believe.
Yeah, maybe you're the asshole just lost his fucking mind.
Yeah, I'm locked in the box.
In the box? - It's no joke.
Let me out.
Be right there.
Jimmy.
He fuck you? He tried but mostly he just fucks himself.
You ain't seen those yet, huh? I'll bet you didn't.
Fucking Burrell's asshole must be so tight you couldn't pull a pin from it with a John Deere tractor.
Here you're promising a double-digit drop, and he gives you a four per cent bump for two quarters in a row.
Thanks for bringing these by, Stan.
Well, I wanted to give you a heads-up.
Truth is, looking at numbers like those, I'm thinking you could do a lot worse than give me a run as acting commissioner.
I know you couldn't make me permanent, maybe six months while you keep grooming your boy Daniels.
I'd get a pension bump, and you'd get a head start on clearing out deadwood, beginning with Burrell and Rawls.
Thanks, Stan.
Let me think on it.
You do that, Tommy.
Even on an acting basis, can you imagine Nerese and the ministers dealing with Commissioner Valchek? - What are you gonna do about the numbers? - Fuck can I do? I cut the department budget to the bone, right? Can't very well complain when their crime rate bumps.
Burrell comes in here and owns these, I got to give him a pass, at least until I can fix his money problems.
Your piece took a bad bite there.
Yeah, well, it's my fault for giving it up to the A-section.
Page-one editor made noises like it was gonna go out front and then he tossed it back to Metro before the double-dot.
Night editor didn't have room to take it back, so Story deserved better.
Sorry.
Three people murdered in a house, and it gets 12 inches below the fold.
Explain that to me.
There's no explaining it.
Advertising's down, we got a smaller news hole, we're not managing it well.
We messed up.
That's all.
Wrong zip code.
They're dead where it doesn't count.
If they were white and murdered in Timonium, you'd have had 30 inches off the front.
Would have been my first front-pager where I didn't share a byline.
Yeah? I drove down to the Port Covington plant this morning to get a copy.
You ain't the first to do that.
Our 10-7 on the floor yet? He's by the overhead camera.
I need to grab prints, get him ID'd.
Don't you want to wait for the post, keep his hands clean for trace? I need to know who my victim is.
That's the priority.
Finish your breakfast.
I got plenty of time.
There's nothing under the nails that I can see.
I think we can risk prints.
Something's up.
Please.
Gather round.
Steve, could someone get word across the hall to Features and Sports? - Sure.
We want everyone on this.
What, did we get sold again? First the LA Times buys us up, then the Tribune.
Law of the fish.
We're the minnow.
Maybe we won a Pulitzer.
Pulitzers are still a week away.
It just turned April.
Nah.
Look at Whiting's pants.
If we won a Pulitzer, the executive editor would be tumescent.
Tum-what? Speak English.
I'm just a police reporter.
Tumescent.
Engorged.
Exactly.
It's a bad time for newspapers, as you all know.
The news hole is shrinking as advertising dollars continue to decline.
Our circulation numbers are also down as we compete with a variety of media.
Technology is driving distribution and the internet is a free source of news and opinions.
Seeking a balance in this new world, we're now faced with hard choices.
We opened our first foreign bureau in London in 1924.
The Sun's foreign coverage has been a source of pride ever since.
So it is with tremendous regret that I tell you that Chicago has made it clear that the bureaus in Beijing, Moscow, Jerusalem, Johannesburg and London will all be shuttered.
Elsewhere in the newsroom, there will be a fresh round of buyouts.
Chicago has given us some specific budgetary targets that will require some hard choices throughout the newsroom.
We are, quite simply, going to have to find ways to do more with less.
So I guess I will turn this over to Tom, who will get into the specifics.
I know some of you have questions.
If you could hold them for me until after I've had a chance to speak.
Pull your clip book together.
Time to find a new home.
Chicago has sent us a memo outlining options that are available to those of you The aorta should have elasticity to it, but it's rock-hard.
Whoever strangled him could've just waited a month or two more.
This guy was on his last legs.
It is what it is.
In addition to the fractured hyoid and the bruising, I got signs of a struggle around the body, a couple of witnesses who thought they heard sounds of a struggle inside the house.
Also that ribbon you snipped off, it might tie to other cases.
The ribbon my own investigator missed at the scene.
It happens.
It was high on the wrist.
Cause and manner is homicide by strangulation.
Good hunting, Detective.
"Anyone requiring additional information "on COBRA benefits and pension payout "as part of the voluntary separation plan "can schedule an appointment with human resources.
" Some of you will migrate into new positions while others will, of course, be moving on to other opportunities beyond the Sun, but everyone in this room has done excellent work and should be proud of their contributions.
How many buyouts are there? - That hasn't been determined yet.
We'll talk to the union today.
How will this affect the upcoming contract negotiations with the guild? Badly.
Kiss any raise goodbye.
How come there's cuts in the newsroom when the company's still profitable? There's nobody that feels worse about this than I do.
I've seen the excellent work we've done here in Baltimore.
The sooner we start meeting with you individually, the sooner I can answer all of your questions.
Not O'Mara.
Aw, no.
Good luck, everybody.
No increase in felonies and a one per cent bump in total crime.
Do you vouch for these figures? - Sir? - No increase in crime even after I cut you guys to the bone.
This is what you're telling me? Because the one thing I'm asking of you guys, the one thing that I'm asking above all, is that you bring me clean numbers.
Yes, Mr.
Mayor.
You made that clear.
Very good, then.
Burrell is done.
He just killed himself.
We leak the real stats, hold the cooked ones in case he won't go quietly.
And replace him with who? Rawls? He came in with the same stats.
If I know Bill Rawls, he'll be calling over here as soon as he gets back to his office, telling us he warned Burrell against cooking the books.
The ministers won't live with Rawls.
Neither will Nerese.
As acting commissioner they will, for a few months at least, if we've got a black candidate to sell them.
Daniels isn't ready.
He's only been colonel for a year.
A year will do in a pinch.
You float it with one of your bunkies on Calvert Street.
See how it plays.
Burrell reads that, he'll shit melons.
I fucking hope so.
It's Baltimore.
No one lives forever.
Andreas, right? The Russian sent me.
Need you to get a word to Vondas.
He got a new friend.
I never hear the name.
Just let him know Marlo came past with a gift.
Be at you same time tomorrow.
Any idea how long this could take? Don't know.
Might be here all day.
I have meetings scheduled.
We've got to lay the foundation carefully, make it so the grand jurors understand all the ins and outs so they don't get lost in the details.
Mr.
Howard? Is there any way I could go earlier? If you're important enough, sure.
I'm the vice president of a major financial institution.
Who the fuck isn't? Now, sir, directing your attention to the document in your hand, is that also an account statement? Yes, it is, for a nonprofit, interest-bearing account, organizational, with 5013 designation.
Can you begin by slowly explaining in the most basic terms each of those things, beginning with the word nonprofit? - Hey, is box two open? - Not yet.
What about three? - Someone's killing homeless men.
Medical examiner says so.
Weird thing about my case, Bunk.
Dead man was homeless, but he had a red ribbon tied around his wrist.
What does a homeless guy have to remember that he should have a red ribbon tied around his wrist? - Barlow.
What? Nice out.
Oh, like Chanel No.
5 comes out of your ass, Moreland.
If you got a problem, then I got a problem.
That's how the co-op work.
What's the problem? I got too much money.
Son, believe me, you ain't alone.
What to do with the shit we sell ain't no thing.
In Baltimore, dope and coke sell themselves, but the money that come back? Ain't enough mattresses, is there, now? You got any ideas? A few.
If you askin'.
Not Twigg.
Damn.
Guy gives 20 years to the paper, and this how it ends? Fact of the matter is, it's more profitable these days to run a worse paper for less money.
Cut back people and pages, you increase revenue.
If we're lucky, they'll just get rid of deadwood.
How'd it go? - "You've done excellent work.
" - Shit Without being explicit, they gave me a choice - - either the copy desk or the buyout.
You're kidding, right? Apparently, they can hire for what it costs to keep me in print, so Damn, Roger.
Sorry, man.
Fuck it.
I might as well get to work on that great American novel.
Yeah.
Gus, come on in.
Have a seat.
Relax, Gus.
We need you here.
We value your dedication.
You've done excellent work.
We're counting on you to transition the new team.
There's still excellent talent out there that needs to be developed.
What kind of team's going to be left? - We're losing good people, but we expect to retain the core of a solid staff.
Doing more with less.
That's what we have to contemplate going forward.
More with less, huh? Look at this.
A red ribbon in one of Ray Cole's files.
Cole left a note with it.
"Found on left wrist of victim.
"Check against other cases.
" Hey, hon.
How's the stain look on the cabinets? They dry yet? Great.
I'm on my way.
This is the hard part, getting these guys to give a shit.
Let's get a taste.
I'm buying.
You think I'm drinking with you? Go home, Jimmy.
Think your weak shit through, man.
Go home? For the love of God, I'm working a serial killer.
You want to talk on it? Went with Chris and them.
Set up on this family.
Everything so serious now.
Yo, little man, you finish your homework? 'Cause it's late now, and it's only gonna get later if we don't roll home soon.
Ain't no school tomorrow.
Teacher meetings.
We should do something, Mike.
Got my corner to run, man.
What? What, nigger? Six Flags be open again.
That shit's taking forever.
Complicated stuff, I suppose.
It's more like Joe make it complicated.
That nigga got a thing for conversation.
Not like Marlo.
Definitely not.
Now, see, pastor here, he one of about three I like to give money to.
Help with his good works and all that.
Good works? He down with all kind of missionary work going on down in the islands.
You know, building a church for some folk, a schoolhouse for some other folks, all kind of good shit like that.
And what else y'all building? - A hospital.
Hospital, yeah.
Except they been building that mess for about ten years now, - and nothing ever actually get finished.
How you gonna clean my money? Got accounts at some of the banks down there.
Donations come in as cash, cashier's checks come out.
Tiny-ass Caribbean island don't truck with no subpoenas, - no court orders, none of that.
You pay ten on the dollar.
Anything beyond that depends on your generosity, to save those who want to be saved.
I'm back.
I can see that.
Again.
I saw your text message on my cell phone today, it took me a minute to remember who the hell you were.
It ain't been that long.
Shit.
When you left, I was still covering the labor beat.
We ain't had a labor reporter around here in three years.
Yeah, well, now you the big, bad city editor, and I'm whoring myself for politicians.
You got out just at the right time too.
That bad, huh? - Chicago is killing us.
One buyout after another.
I can't even begin to think what our next round of guild negotiations is gonna be like.
Well, enough of me crying.
What are you selling tonight, dear Norman? Carcetti's planning to shitcan Burrell.
He's talking to people and considering replacements.
City hall source? Who's the leading candidate? Rawls, deputy for operations, might have the job for a few months, but there's a frontrunner from deeper in the department.
Cedric Daniels.
It's been a while since I've been on the street there, Norman.
Who's this Daniels? - Chief of detectives.
Polished.
Holds a law degree.
Brought closure to some high-level cases.
His ex-wife got herself elected to the council last go-round.
I always liked photos with my stories.
And this is aimed at who? Huh? The ministers? Nerese? You want to see if they can live with this fella here, right? A'ight.
From one whore to another.
Whoa, what the fuck? Check this shit out.
Beautiful.
Holy shit.
Look at this motherfucker.
Hit him with the spot.
CID.
Figures, don't it? Where y'all need to go? - Down Six Flags.
You talkin' round trip? Run you 200 plus gas.
Where you at? I got 150, gas included, if it even get us there.
Don't be fretting on the ride now.
This motherfucker tried and true.
A'ight.
I got half when we get there and half on the way back.
I guess you're not up for a story.
I need something worked on right away.
What do you got? Mayor's thinking about firing the police commissioner.
He's floating the idea anyway.
No problem.
I'm all over it.
What do you know about Daniels? - Who is he? - A CID commander.
Came out of the Eastern DEU, married to the Daniels that won the council seat in '06.
Brought in a couple of big wiretap cases, they gave him the Western, hoping to clean up that district after they shitcanned Bunny Colvin.
Since getting separated, he's been shacked up with Ronnie Pearlman over at the state's attorney's office.
No suction early in his career, but now that he's got Carcetti's ear, now the brass stay out of his way.
What's the man's favorite color? - You sure? - Yeah, what the hell? I'm already on the clock.
Ops bureau.
Hi, darlin'.
It's Roger Twigg with the Sun papers.
Hey, Roger.
Is the deputy around? - Sure.
Thanks, hon.
Hey, an hour or two, I'd have had it surrounded.
No doubt.
While Mr.
Deadwood here's working the story, see if you can feed him some react quotes.
A generous gift but your money, the money you bring me I don't need.
Money is money.
What's the difference who bring it to you? It's dirty money.
It stinks.
We ain't in the same business? - The bills are from the street.
They're dirty, you understand? Everything runs through Joe.
Everything is clean with Joe.
Ain't a problem.
Good.
Goodbye.
Hey, Bunk.
What kind of knot you say was on that red ribbon? - The one on the homeless guy's wrist.
Fuck yourself with your red ribbon.
Just thought of something.
I caught a vagrant months back had a red ribbon tied around his wrist.
You remember that? Helluva catch, Detective.
Helluva of a catch.
Can I see your file? Homicide? Nope, just missed him.
Won't be back until about four.
Clean bills? You mean laundered, right? - I just showed you how - Nah, nah.
He mean clean, like the money straight out the bank and shit.
All lookin' nice.
See, people ain't right.
Here you are tryin' to pay a motherfucker, an' all he worried about is what the money look like.
Normally, my fee for this would be 20 on the dollar.
You need this back today too.
Might ordinarily charge more, but seeing as how we co-op, no charge.
Speaking of co-op, tell them niggers that got burnt I'm givin' away 50 for a line on Omar's people.
His sister, his me-maw, some faggy he be with.
All that shit count, you hear me? - I'd let sleeping dogs lie, son.
I know you would, Joe.
You smart like that.
Yeah.
Me? Anyway, pass that offer on.
Come back for this here in an hour.
That boy want Omar bad.
Man, I ain't giving him a thing on Omar.
Omar been gone.
Took a lot of bad history with him too.
Why in the hell would I want that motherfucker back? How fast you think we were going on that first drop? - 75 an hour.
That's it? Felt like I was coming out of my seat, man.
You always knowing stuff like that.
How? Over there! Y'all throwin' some bricks.
Put a little touch on it.
Watch.
Put some backspin on it, or else it'll bank off the box and not in it.
Hold this.
So where Fairfax at? - Northern Virginia.
How about you? - I live up Baltimore.
That's so cool.
You two have your own place? - Yeah, and Bug.
That's tight.
Madman on the loose, huh? Three linked cases and counting.
He's killing vagrants, is he? Don't say I didn't warn you.
Who covers us for the Sun papers nowadays? Twigg? Him or this new girl.
Alma something.
Baltimore Sun.
Gutierrez.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
Can I meet you? Do you know Al Pacino's? How about half an hour? Okay.
See you then.
Good react quote from me in Metro Write.
Whoa.
Scott, come here.
This quote here.
"Carcetti may be holding the knife, but Daniels sharpened it for him.
"He's been critical of Burrell since the election.
" Good shit, huh? Yeah, from a high-ranking city hall source? You feel comfortable telling me where you got that? Not really, it being a source.
It's a great quote, but if you're gonna if you're gonna slam somebody anonymously, I at least have to be sure that the quote comes from Nerese Campbell.
She's not gonna slam the mayor's choice publicly, but not-for-attribution, that's her quote.
You got Nerese to say that, huh? Twigg's not the only guy with game around here.
Let Vondas know I ain't mean no misunderstanding earlier.
How do you know they're connected? Is there DNA evidence or a signature? We can't release that yet.
You know, copycats.
So there is a signature.
What? You're good.
You're new, right? - Five months.
I worked at the Sun-Sentinel in Lauderdale before this.
I've read your stories.
They're good.
Bullshit, but thanks.
You're gonna run something right away, right? We got to get the word out on this.
What kind of name is Alma? - I have a boyfriend, Detective.
Yeah? He bigger than me? Can I ask you why on the day in question you were operating the senator's car when you were detained by city police with $20,000 in cash? On advice of my attorney, I ain't gonna answer that.
Y'all trying to criminate me here.
Mr.
Price, you are employed as a driver for Senator Davis, earning 30,000 a year, is that correct? - Yeah, so? - Yet it is my understanding that you are also drawing a $40,000 salary as the executive director of the West Baltimore hoops charity and another 30,000 as the fundraising director for the senator's day-care initiative.
How are you able to earn three salaries, working three jobs at the same time, Mr.
Price? You have a nice day.
Blind motherfucker.
His joint on Collington on the east side of the street.
If he give up Omar, though, I want in on that shit.
Nigger put a gun in my face, man.
Joe know about Butchie? - Motherfucker, I know about him.
Joe don't know shit about this here, and he ain't need to know.
Now where my cheese at, man? Ooh.
The fuck you been at, nigga? Wasn't no school today, so we took Bug to do something.
Ain't no thing.
It is when you don't tell no one! I had to come down here all day long to make sure your shit is straight.
This your corner or what, nigga? I'm checking now to make sure shit's right at the end of the day.
A'ight? - Yo, count right? - Yeah.
All straight.
Ain't the point, and you know it.
Chris already heard about this shit.
Nice dolphin, nigga.
Let's go home, man.
I'll deal with this bullshit later.
That's 400 in your own account down in the islands.
There no hurricane, department of justice, or nigga with a gun can tap that.
How I even know it's there? - You check it online any time you like.
On a computer? - If I can't hold it in my hand - A'ight.
You got any prior convictions? - No, nothing that rate.
We get you a passport, then.
Take a trip.
Hm.
Ain't easy civilizing this motherfucker.
We chose poorly, Gus.
Yeah.
At this rate, there won't be much to call a newspaper in ten years.
You know my father worked over at Armco, right? And every morning before he went to work, he'd sit at the table, reading the newspaper with a cup of coffee, and no one could interrupt him for that And I remember watching him, thinking, "What the hell is so important about that damn paper? "I want to be part of that.
" Made me want to be a newspaperman.
One day, I was cutting class at Patterson, and there was this man on the downtown bus folding his broadsheet just so.
And the way that man folded that paper and concentrated on reading those pages made him look like the smartest son of a bitch on the bus.
It was just one of those moments.
"If, ever I depart this vale, "and you ever remember me "and have thought to please my ghost "forgive some sinner, "and wink your eye at some homely girl.
" Fuck Henry Mencken.
I forgive you, Gus.
Oh, my God.
You see that quote from somebody about me stabbing Burrell in the back? That's a damn lie.
So what? You're going to be named commissioner.
This is good news.
How is this not good news? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Thanks.
Cheap motherfucker.
No, no, see.
If you stack it with the domestic beer, then I won't know, huh? Cut a blind man some slack, hear? - Y'all servin'? - If you got some ID on you.
Who was that? - Little girl.
Cash is in the register.
Fuck the register, old man.
They all up in your shit.
They going after every damn thing.
Do you hear me? We going to jail.
Focus, motherfucker.
Focus! Look here.
Back in the girdle ads underneath the story about the the school board approving a name change for PS 114, it's it's Jimmy McNulty's ripper.
You know why they call them homeless, Jimmy? Because they ain't got a pot to piss in, and you know why they ain't got a pot? Because nobody gives a good fuck.
Shake it for another day or two, and then you're back in the rotation.
You done with this stupid shit? Who the fuck do you need to hear it from, Jimmy? You have to let Burrell know that this isn't coming from you.
That won't matter.
After what he read today, I'm the threat.
Then you have to tell him that you won't take the job, - that you don't want his chair.
And he believes me? The alternative is that he goes public with what he knows, whatever he has about the old days.
He sat on it this long.
You said yourself he'd rather bury that file than to embarrass the department on his watch, but if it's between you and him surviving, what do you think he'll do then? How much could even be in that file? An assets investigation? Some loose talk? It was so long ago.
Most of those guys have moved on.
He only needs smoke.
He doesn't even need fire to drag you down, to drag me down.
Everything that we have worked so hard for.
We've already lost enough.
What other people Omar got? Cocksucker the one got the trouble.
No need for you to stand tall on it.
It don't have to be messy.
Ain't no other way.
I can see that.
Where I find Omar? No Where Omar at? You a tough old man.
When word get to Omar, make sure he hear everything.
We still ain't got no line on the man, and now he comin' at us.
We gonna change up.
Marlo got to move indoors.
The rest of us need to live on the run.
Fucked-up plan, you ask me.
Marlo wants Omar.
What else you need to know? You making your move on Burrell, and I don't blame you, and the thing is, I can help with that.
The ministers, Nerese, black legislative caucus, - I can bring them around for you.
Feel free.
All I need is some help with this grand jury nonsense.
You go to Bond, you tell Bond that - I can't help you with that.
Story's been out all day, and our phone isn't ringing.
The ministers, Nerese, the caucus, they're willing to live with Daniels, apparently.
Thanks anyway.
Thinking you can cut Clay loose, huh? Thinking I'm done.
Bonjour.
Came to see my account.
Vous parlez pas franais? Y'all got my money in here? Je ne parle pas anglais.
This mine.
Y'all got my money.
Oui, monsieur.
J'ai juste besoin de a.
S'il vous plat, est-ce que je pourrais avoir le a.
Merci.
Identification, s'il vous plat.
What? - Uma.
Yeah.
Oui.
Merci.
Okay, Monsieur Marlo.
So you string together Barlow's murder and Cole's unconnected case and yours, which is natural to begin with Instant serial killer, which I thought would get the brass to begin kicking out some money to work real cases.
Like Marlo.
Like Marlo.
Shit like this actually goes through your fucking brain? Yeah.
If you don't want to listen to your partner, then listen to Lester, he has the wisdom you need.
Joke of it is, no one gives a fuck about a serial killer, not unless he's carving up some pretty co-ed or some shit.
Sun papers put the story in their back pages.
You fucked up.
Yeah.
Tell him.
No.
I mean, if you want to do it right, a straight-up strangle's not enough.
Not if it's some vagrant.
Sensationalize it.
Give the killer some fucked-up fantasy, something bad, real bad.
It's got to grip the hearts and minds, give the people what they want from a serial killer.
Lester, what the fuck? - No.
You're onto something.
I only need a few weeks to pull down Marlo Stanfield.
You fly this mess right, you can give it to me.
Who gives a damn if we fake a couple of murders that we're never gonna solve, huh? The dead men don't care.
No one cares.
But if it's gonna get the bosses to throw down enough coin to do police work I'm out.
I'm outta here.
We got to give your killer a name.
We have to kill again.
Poppy, we've got to cook one of these one night.
Yeah, right on.
Nice little dinner.
Omar, Omar, Omar! Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on.
All right, all right.
Here you go.
Fellas, maana.
Tomorrow, okay? - Tomorrow.
Mind out, Bobby.
Maana, Lexus.
Hey, 'Naldo, cous' got to find out where they got Honey Nut, yo, if they expect us to call this spit o' land home.
Recibi mi llamada? Tengo malas noticias.
Qu pasa? Mataron a Butchie.

Fuck is he doing? Cops still parked right up the block.
What are we, invisible? Stupid fucking yos.
Nah, just fucking with him, man.
You want to wait for him to serve somebody? Fuck it.
They're dirty either way.
Hands on the wall, fuckers.
We ain't done nothing! - Seriously.
I was just sitting in my chair reading a magazine.
Watching your crew work a ground stash, you mean? What the fuck? Asshole! Y'all taking a charge for this, you know that? - You're a truant.
Today's Saturday.
Try Wednesday.
I'm past truancy, why y'all locking me up? - Hey, Colicio.
Officer Colicchio, shitbird.
We need to block every lane here? Shut it down.
It's a police operation here.
Let's back these vehicles up.
Excuse me, officer.
I'm not telling you again.
Tony, calm down.
Officer, if you could just move your car forward just a little bit What are you doing? We're the police! We're the police! What are you doing? Let me go! When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole - Fuck! - Problem? I spent all day trying to trace this $80,000 withdrawal from Clay's personal account, figuring it was dirty.
Turns out he's repaying a loan from his mother-in-law.
A loan? - Yeah.
Has to be.
She gives him the same amount in 2002.
He uses it as a down payment on a property that he buys the same week.
See? He bought a weekend house down in Calvert County six years ago.
You pulled the loan application on the property? Just a second.
Here you go.
Got him.
The head shot.
What? If anyone is suggesting that I've broken chain of command, that I've gone behind your back, that I've lobbied against you in any way, they're lying.
I don't know who told the newspaper that, but they were lying when they said it.
Yeah.
Respectfully, sir, I don't know where this shit is coming from.
Sir no one has spoken to me.
Not Carcetti, not anyone.
But if I'm approached, my answer will be to decline the position and say I serve at your pleasure.
Sir? Sir? Go with the Preakness piece or this one about the firefighter death? - What are you interviewing for? - Metro position, Virginia bureau.
Firefighter, I think.
Got to show something I wrote on deadline.
Burrell might get the ax today.
Who told you that? Desk sergeant in the eastern says it's all over the department.
Wish me luck.
Good luck.
Got a rumor that Burrell is gonna get fired today if not tomorrow.
Yeah? - Work it.
What about Twigg? - I mean, with his sources? - I can't throw one at a guy on his last day.
No, you work it as best you can.
You are now my new senior cop reporter.
Unclaimed.
So far this year 11.
in the freezer I ain't ID'd yet.
Run it for no fixed address.
Jimmy, it'd help if I knew what the fuck you were looking for.
Body-wise, where are we pulling most of the homeless from? With or without ODs? Numbers are way up since Fentanyl showed up.
Throw 'em in.
The more, the merrier.
All right.
Damn! They're all dead and no fixed address? Dropping like flies in the southern lately.
Lester, it's me.
Yeah, in the morgue.
Some 4 to 12, with a lot at midnight, and a lot of them in South Baltimore.
Yeah.
So who do we know working 12 to 8 in the southern? Jimmy, am I missing something here? How does this help you? Don't want none of that phony gangster shit.
He was old-school.
Funny, feel like I should know Butchie, but I can't place him.
Came up under Teensy.
Caught him a slug early.
Took his sight.
Dabbled now and then but kept it quiet as a puppy walking on cotton.
This here do just fine.
Have it say, "Butchie.
Woe to them that call evil good, and good evil.
" Sign it, "Your true and loyal friend, Proposition Joe.
" You ain't thinking no kindly note gonna slow Omar coming at us.
It's how I feel.
He was a good man.
And Marlo? - Marlo is Marlo, man.
He weren't the one that put me in this trick bag.
The motherfucker who snuggled up and whispered in Marlo's ear did that.
I know what you thinking, and I ain't making a move against no kin, not till I got more to go on than words.
And knowing my sister's son the way I do, if the boy got 50 grand in his pocket, it ain't gonna be long before it jump out and find itself in some salesman hand.
And that kind of goody, we know.
In the meantime, if Omar coming for any of us, he coming for me.
And out of respect for that man's skill set, I'm gonna take myself out of the line-up after the meet tomorrow.
Till this shit sort itself out, Cheese gonna watch the shop.
You gonna watch Cheese.
Very clean.
Very nice.
But this is unnecessary.
It was not our intent to mislead.
When I spoke before, about the condition of your money, I was talkingin symbols.
The money, it came from the street, and so I thought you camefrom the street.
I did.
I do.
It was not the money that concerned me.
You have been more than generous, and this is a gift of an honorable man, clearly.
But, in accepting such a gift, we would give you the wrong impression.
You come from the street? The streetdoesn't concern us.
We know a man here, and we trust him.
Butto know more people, to learn more names, to have them learn our names I'm not here to badmouth Prop Joe but people depend on me.
Now, last year, there was a robbery.
I'm saying, you know, what if this happens again? - Where do that put my people? - That's for you to discuss with Joe.
All I'm asking for is an insurance policy.
You know, something covers me and covers you.
And covers Joe.
Hmm? The young man makes a point.
You're right.
These are volatile times.
It is not unreasonable to carry insurance.
Who can say what tomorrow will show us? You go.
Be safe.
Your case.
Oh, y'all came a ways.
Put it to expenses.
If we were to tell him no, he will still come back.
This he shows us.
But he is not Joe.
He is not Joe.
If I follow this, the senator's mother-in-law gave him $80,000 that he used as a down payment on some property.
Later, he paid the money back, which makes it a loan.
Which falsifies the loan application.
The moment he signs the application, he's exposed.
Title 18 of the US code, chapter 47, section 10-14, Loan And Credit Applications.
The US Attorney's office, call it "the head shot.
" that every college kid does with a starter home.
Daddy loans you money to qualify, a couple years later, you pay him back.
With leverage like that, this case needs to go federal.
Outstanding work, Detective.
Let me have some time to digest this.
Counselor, a moment? Is there another way to go at this? How strong are our theft counts? Straightforward document cases, four counts.
He stole from his own charities.
We convict, that's ten years per count.
Nothing to sneeze at, even without the bank charge.
You think it might be OK for me to sit in on one of your budget meetings? On our good days.
Ed? This is Scott Templeton.
Scott, good to meet you.
Have a seat.
Give me a sec.
Next mouth needs fed is the Right Reverend Isaac Cason.
Christ! All's I'm trying to do is dump Burrell.
You want us to swallow Rawls, you'd better grease that morsel up good.
Rawls for 6 months, then Daniels.
What, Daniels isn't black enough for you guys? They don't know him.
They know Burrell, and they could phone when they needed.
Burrell came in here with bad stats.
He lied to my face.
Rawls lied, too, but you're making him acting commissioner.
Only till Daniels gets groomed.
We can't fire everyone all at once.
This isn't getting us anywhere.
Only two more left.
Fine.
How can I be of assistance to the good Reverend Cason? He has property he wants to convert to senior housing.
Can we accommodate him? We're broke, but we could steer some Hud money his way.
That leaves Reverend Myrtle Smith.
She wants to extend parking to a vacant lot next to her church.
It's city property.
That's it? - The last is the least.
A long-term lease, dollar a year.
Then there's the matter of McCulloh Homes.
The same McCulloh Homes that's adjacent to Andy Krawczyk's $300 million expansion - of the state office complex.
Over 500 units.
Public housing.
You'll need that Hope VI money for that.
Is there any to be had? - It doesn't matter.
All madam president wants is the green light.
You want him gone, right? It's good stuff.
Some of your feature work is a little wrought for what we do here language-wise, but it all shows initiative.
That's the style they want from me but to tell you the truth, I prefer to write it dry.
You've been in Baltimore long? - Two years.
Before that, I was at the Kansas City Star for three years, Wichita Eagle before that.
The Sun's a fine paper.
Before the cutbacks, maybe.
Well, they still beat us often enough in Annapolis for my Maryland desk to take them seriously.
You have anything to do with those ground rent stories last year? It's good stuff, real good stuff.
Oh, hey.
You wanted to go to the page one meeting, right? Another time, maybe.
Anyway, as he says, we'll keep the rsum on file.
A few more clips, a little more seasoning, we'll take another look, OK? You can just toss that.
That's the plan - let him cut his teeth as deputy for operations, and in six months, make him.
He's not the spick-and-span boy they think he is.
He came up in the eastern district, part of a bad drug unit that was skimming seized drug money.
I had the feds This isn't about Daniels.
You came in with bad stats.
For the mayor, that was the last straw.
My numbers were clean, they had gone through staff review.
You tell Carcetti Ervin, it doesn't matter now.
You're done.
Carcetti has moved on you.
You tell him if he does me like this, I'll do Daniels.
You kill Daniels, and we end up with Bill Rawls as police commissioner.
The ministers, the caucus, the council - they'll live with Daniels.
Why? Because Carcetti gave away the store just to push you out.
We'll have your back.
I promise you.
Full pension and a job on the mayor's criminal justice coordinating council, and from there, something down in Washington with one of the police associations, six figures guaranteed.
Go the right way, and attention will be paid.
But you go kicking and screaming, and no one - not the caucus, not the ministers, not me - will be there for you.
Your choice.
Press conference tomorrow.
You play out the string.
Carcetti will do the same.
Attention.
All unauthorized vehicles parked on the loading dock are now being towed.
No one's saying anything? - I thought you might be able to help.
Not even off the record? He told you.
E- dot deadline's creeping up.
Where are we at? One source at the courthouse says it's true, he heard it at the hall.
The mayor's office isn't saying anything, but there's a press conference tomorrow.
What about headquarters? - Daniels had no comment, - and Rawls won't return my calls.
Fuck, fuck, fuck.
Where the hell is Templeton? He could be throwing calls, too.
My last gift to you, Gus.
Stan? It's Twigg, and I'm on a deadline, so cut the bullshit.
Don't tell me they're firing the police commissioner and you don't know.
Don't be fucking telling me that.
Lucky I signed off on your ass, or you'd be on your way out to Boys' Village.
And look how you do me.
Not coming around, not letting me see Bug.
Is that how you pay back a mother? - How should I pay you back? - By showing a little respect.
That all? Truth is, things have been rough around the way.
With you doing so good, thought maybe you'd throw some ends my way.
Seeing as how I was here for you.
I ain't paying you to be my mother.
Uh-oh! The pros from downtown are here.
What can I do for you gents? You got a copy of the shift roster? - Didn't Oscar get a realtor's license? - That would be his day job.
My favorite side partner from my salad days in patrol.
Thank you.
Hard to imagine you in patrol.
Damned if I can find it.
That's why they call it a hole.
That there is the sickest idea yet.
You know that? I'm just gilding your lily, son.
There.
Right there.
Go away! I'm on my lunch break.
Excuse me, officer.
Is this the on-ramp to 95? Socks.
I'll be fucked.
This is my partner, Jimmy McNulty.
You look like a man in the market for a new house.
Think about it.
It's a buyer's market.
Nice card.
You have an eye for quality, Socks.
Call me if you decide to move.
So this isn't a social call? - I wish it were.
Well, get on with it.
I got a busy day tomorrow, I need my rest.
Oscar, we're in need of a body - male, homeless, little or no decomp.
Unattended death? That shouldn't be no problem, seeing as you homicide.
We need to get to it before anybody else sees.
You want to open an H-file? Well, that's got to be a first.
How do I reach you? All right.
You want to know why? Is that it? - If he backs up on us - McQuayle was in homicide.
He caught one - a botched kidnapping.
He gets there, finds the area chief sightseeing his scene, asks him to back off, cites the GO.
G-3, "Authority and responsibility to coordinate the investigation "shall rest with the homicide detective.
" Area chief takes umbrage.
Oscar stands his ground, and there's quite a dust-up.
The next morning, he's told he's insubordinate.
He's got to work two weeks extra duty pounding pavement.
He told them to go fuck themselves, he'll take the trial board.
Well, he eats two weeks, and they shitcan him out the unit.
Area chief? Name of Rawls, as I remember it.
How you still alive, yo? They needed to send a message.
Tell him.
Said, "Tell Omar he put his hand in the wrong pocket.
" You need to know, Marlo dogs, they didn't let Butchie go easy.
I'm gonna work them.
Sweet Jesus, I'm gonna work them.
I want in.
Nah, this one on me, yo.
But you don't know them people.
As expected, it's Rawls, with Daniels waiting in the wings.
Did they not know that I made myself a candidate? - I feel dissed.
So Rawls finally has his day.
Not much more than a day it shall be.
Daniels by year's end.
Look at this.
You're not even gonna read it? - All you do is change the date.
I'm covering my ass, Jay.
Consider it covered.
Motherfucker, I am the primary on 22 bodies more than a year old, and I still haven't got trace analysis on 14 scenes.
The lab can't keep up with this year's cases.
You want action, show me some traction.
Or buy yourself a chemistry set.
Just doing background on my vics, looking for a common thread.
Motherfucker, don't even Fuck you, too, motherfucker.
What's wrong with Bunk? Hard to say.
Beneath that gruff veneer, he's actually very emotional.
Looking for the theme in your homeless case? Well, wish me luck.
I'm gonna try for an interview with my only wit.
The home invasion? - Hmm.
Fuck him, Tony, the guy was an asshole.
You know who you were beating on yesterday? You fucking know? A teacher, from Stuart Hill Elementary, trying to get around our bullshit to an after-school program.
He should have said so.
He never got a chance.
Boy, I seen some stupid shit in my day, but even by western standards, this rates a whole new category.
IID is down the hall talking to the major.
They're gonna be looking for statements in ten minutes.
Tony, you got to write this smart.
The excessive horn blowing distracted you from securing juvenile prisoners who became volatile due to the noise, and you warned the driver several times Man, fuck that motherfucker.
Say what? - I said, fuck him.
Shitbird lays on his horn.
Fuck his ignorant ass.
Admin lieutenant to the major's office.
Tony, I'm writing you up.
Excessive force, conduct unbecoming.
You ain't gonna back me? - I'm charging you.
You charge me, you're a fucking rat.
Then I'm a rat.
No.
After what I've been through to toss him out of the plane, now you want me to pretty up his parachute? The commissioner served this city for 34 years.
Any five of which would be enough to have him indicted.
You should have thought about this before you put a gun to my head and snatched up the McCulloh Homes for whatever developer you're hiding.
This isn't about me, and it isn't even about Burrell.
It's about Daniels or whoever else you want in that department.
How so? - 34 years is a long time.
Anyone around that long can put his hands on a lot of dirt.
If they talk - Daniels? - I'm not being specific here.
I'm just making it clear for everyone's sake it would be better if Burrell went quietly.
We've scheduled a press conference for this afternoon.
I think Ervin is ready for a little grip and grin.
With you, with Rawls For considerations, he might even put his arm around Daniels.
Money from a donor to West Side Hoops.
Deposit date.
Withdrawal from that account to his personal account.
Againmoney from a donor.
Thank you for coming, senator.
We've asked you in to answer questions regarding certain financial irregularities.
We can go to my office and talk first or get right to it.
Lead on.
If you'll follow me, then.
He's pretty cool about it.
The coming out tells the tale.
Devon? Do you know this story? Or would you like me to read it to you? Devon? Devon? Now, then, I show you a canceled check dated 22 January, 2007, from Sterner, Ernst, and Bauer Development Group made payable to West Baltimore Hoops Incorporated in the amount of $11,000.
And this dated 23 January, 2007, a check drawn on the West Baltimore Hoops Incorporated account in the amount of $11,000.
And a deposit slip dated 23 January, same year, to your personal account in the amount of $11,000.
I come here to help, but y'all out for blood.
I'm not answering no more questions.
You are invoking your right against self-incrimination, sir? - Damn right.
Then we'll conclude this testimony.
Damn.
And that was just a love tap.
Imagine if we hit the good senator with the whole shebang.
Quick on the fifth, huh? Why did we even grand-jury, then? The answer to that, detective, is out on Calvert Street.
Senator, we'd like to talk to you.
Senator, please, over here.
Senator, would you care to make a statement? - Senator, please, senator! - Over here, senator.
Did you appear before the grand jury? Jane, I insisted that I be called.
Senator, aren't you the target of an investigation into theft and fraud? No, pardon, no.
Some people are confused about some things.
But that's why I came here, to set them straight.
Happy to do it, too.
Happy to avail myself of the Grand jury's supposed to be secret.
Who called the reporters? Mr.
Bond, our state's attorney Laying claim to the senator before anybody else can.
There just seemed to be a little bit of a misunderstanding about my dealings here in the community.
Yo, as soon as this newspaper stink get off my ass, I'm-a unload my club and clear a mil.
I'm gonna snatch up every vacant I can get my fingers on.
There you go.
Like a real player.
It's a whole new world, man.
Buy some property.
Hold on to it till white people show up, you make a killing.
Milton's into that, except he got a deal with that bullshit prisoner entry program.
Got convicts fixing up his house.
Motherfuckers Shut the fuck up.
I'm sick of listening to your shit.
Have we got business? If we ain't, we gonna bounce.
Marlo here seems pressed for time, so y'all can pick back up on this after the meet.
Last up.
We got Hungry Man.
Junior here took it upon himself to make unlawful incursions into county territory marked for my people.
Incursions? Ain't you the articulate motherfucker? Keep talking, you gonna get spanked.
Like you got the heart.
Motherfucker piss like a bitch.
All right, shut it down.
Last I look, you wasn't no charter member.
I apologize.
My nephew gonna heed the boundaries, I assure you.
A'ight, meeting's adjourned.
What the fuck up in here? - Just like I told you, right? - Yeah.
I pulled some of it out, brought it back home.
I was I was thinking what next with this? You clear some time tomorrow, I'll open the door for you.
That work? Son you need to focus a bit more on what can be gained by working with people.
That's just a thought, now.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Come to see a dead man walking? I hear Carcetti's gonna do right by you.
Salary with the coordinating council, then a DC job.
You deserve it.
Sure, I deserve it, but not for doing the job.
What I got, they gave me for carrying their water all these years.
To Carcetti, I'm a hack.
Royce was no different.
Maybe I am.
But every day they send over a new priority.
Go after the bad guys.
No, change that.
Make quality-of-life cases.
Get on top of the murders.
On second thought, run the whores out of Patterson Park.
You think the mayor tells the schools how to teach kids, or the health department how to do its job, or sanitation how to pick up trash? But get elected, and suddenly they know police work.
You might think it'll be different when you sit here but it won't.
You will eat their shit.
Daniels, too, when he gets here.
I wonder how you get the ladder to go up.
How do you do that? This is a wonderful fire truck.
I wonder where all the firemen are.
Think they could fit in here? I wonder what kind of siren sound this makes.
Cheryl, hey.
Um, I was thinking I might want to swing by and see Elijah, you know? Yeah, I know it's been a while.
But No, no, no, I can get off.
Yeah, tomorrow'd be fine.
Yeah.
Sure.
I'll be right back.
I'm sorry.
I just don't think - No, it's OK.
Right now, he's too withdrawn to revisit the event.
How do you come back from something like that? You look nervous, Deputy.
I swear I didn't ask for this.
Relax.
You once told me that if I was gonna do you, you'd be done already.
Remember? Shit, I don't even remember what was in that file.
Something about the eastern district.
So long ago, who can remember? I wanted to say a few words about public service and about Ervin H.
Burrell.
During my time on the city council, Erv was no stranger to me.
I chaired the public safety subcommittee, and I called upon him many times.
We worked closely and when I became mayor we formed a strong relationship He feared and hated me, and I merely wanted him dead.
making Baltimore a safer city.
Don't stray from the inner harbor.
The criminal justice coordinating council needs new leadership It took a while, but I finally put his ass out to pasture.
If you would.
Thank you.
Plaques for hacks.
Prerogative of any big-city mayor.
How much of that insight and analysis can we get in tomorrow's story? Little to none.
Twigg could work the department sources, and they would shit all over a dog-and-pony show like that.
What about Price at the hall? They set up the press conference.
They're not gonna tell the truth.
No, a veteran in the cop shop gets us over on a story like this, and fuck if we didn't buy ours out.
Gus, I understand that you're disappointed with the cutbacks, but civility is important.
I've been meaning to talk to you about your profanity.
My profanity? A collegial atmosphere is essential.
Collegial? I fucking failed out of journalism school.
What the fuck do "collegial" mean? - Christ, we don't have this? Prosecutors would not comment on a possible grand-jury investigation, but sources familiar with the case say the senator has been under investigation - for more than a year.
Zorzi! Assistant state's attorney Rhonda Pearlman Clay Davis was grand-juried today.
He's been under investigation for a year.
I'm a federal court reporter, remember? We haven't had daily city court coverage since Doug Strock took the buyout before last.
This isn't a federal probe? - I would have had that.
This is city.
You want one reporter covering two courthouses, fine.
Why not shove the broom up my ass, and I'll sweep the floor while I'm at it.
All right.
Just get caught up, OK? - See if you can get a quote from Davis.
All right.
Scott, chase a courthouse story with Zorzi.
What do you need? - Find the state's attorney.
He set up Clay Davis outside the grand jury today.
Get hold of Bond, he'll catch us up on this shit.
Jesus.
Remember the good old days when nobody would stage a perp walk without calling a daily newspaper? Nowadays, all they care about is a goddamn video.
They've forgotten.
I don't know why we're doing this.
I can write a report like this in my sleep.
There's no way Jay checks what I'm doing.
Jimmy, Jimmy, a lot rides on this.
Work it like a real case, it'll feel like a real case, and more importantly, it'll read like a real case.
I was in the squad room today, all the casework laid out like I'm lost in a career case.
Landsman barely noticed.
We crank this up, Landsman won't be the only one thumbing through this H-file.
We get sloppy, we get cuffed.
What do you want me to do? What detectives do, detective.
Can I talk to you for a second? Maybe later.
I got to get ready for work.
Does your dog bite? - Got teeth, don't he? Chip change, get your ass in here.
That's it.
I'm Detective McNulty, Homicide.
Can I ask you a few questions? Got a card? Hey! You got a card? - Card? - Business card, yeah.
This That is a card.
No! We having fun yet? I need a drink.
I'm gonna ask you once, where Joe? Skip past the talking.
Do what you feel.
Joe ain't had nothing to do with Now, Slim, you gonna make me hurt you, yo.
Ask yourself, dog, why would Joe give Butchie up? If Marlo could make him talk, he puts Joe inside your big score.
If Joe turned Butchie, I'd tell you.
Shit, I help you, even.
But it just ain't like that.
Come on, yo.
Finish it.
Take a look at the fifth graph.
"The mayor," comma, "incensed by the commissioner's performance" - "Incensed" seems over the top.
I don't know.
Drug legalization fiasco, the bodies in the vacants, the bullshit stats - I'd be incensed.
Jay, take a look at Arnold's fifth graph.
OK.
"Incensed" is to inflame with wrath.
It speaks to obsession.
Is this the mayor's state of mind? Something more nuanced, perhaps.
Galled, vexed, annoyed Safer stilldispleased.
You'd take the crab out of crab soup.
Hey, Scott, that was good work by you and Zorzi catching us up.
Great effort.
There's an "attaboy" for you.
How'd it go in Washington? Buyer's market out there.
Baltimore Sun ain't so bad.
Reported DOA, alley in the rear of the old Compton plant.
Copy DOA.
I'm close by.
I'll handle it.
Copy, 9-Adam-46.
Bunk, are you feeling all right? She said "DOA", not "donut".
I know y'all into keeping things on the hush-hush tip, but, damn, Chris, this CIA shit off the hook.
I, uh I ain't done nothing lately to piss you off, right? Right? Man already shit hisself, and we ain't even get started yet.
He's funky, yo.
It's a gift from Marlo.
But you know how that go.
Give a gift, get a gift.
Yo, Hungry Man, what's up? - Hello? - Lester, you can turn around.
Bad call? - Yeah, false alarm.
All right.
Won't work.
He's too far gone.
I find them, detective.
What you do after that is your business.
Thanks.
Maybe next time.
Seeing as how I'm doing you a favor, detective, you can write the first officer's report for me.
My sequence is A-1-15.
I know him.
Avon's lawyer.
Yeah, mine, too.
Brick uses him.
So does Phil Boy for most of his stuff, not just the criminal side.
Yeah, Levy excels in putting our limp-dick money to work.
You want to know what to do with them bank checks? This where you need to be.
Joseph, you're looking prosperous.
I get by.
Mr.
Stanfield.
Joseph tells me good things about you.
You ever find that camera? Cost me the job.
So let's go into the conference room where we can spread out.
This between you and your attorney.
Carcetti finally dumps Burrell.
Ervin was a year before me at Dunbar.
No shit.
He was in the glee club.
You're killing me.
I got to ask.
Stone stupid.
Elijah? Say hi to Aunt Kima.
Anyways, you were right on time with this.
I got a dozen things to get done, and I got to do them while working overtime at the station.
Been busy, huh? - Yeah.
Your boss got fired.
We've been running ever since.
Bye, Lij.
Go on.
We'll be fine.
Wow, that's good.
You staying inside the lines.
Hey, you want to do something? Go to the park? Get some ice cream? What did you say? You don't have a house? What's up with that? A hero needs a house.
Been a long time since I built a house.
Hope I remember how.
Deputy ops.
No, this is Daniels.
Cedric Daniels.
He's now in the commissioner's office.
Yes.
He knows he fucked up.
He knows this.
He's proud, you know? He doesn't want to beg.
It's not about that.
Come on, Carv.
You cannot do one of your own guys.
I mean, I know you got rank now, you're damn near lieutenant, but still It ain't about the rank.
I never told you, Herc.
Never said a fucking word.
But when I gave you that kid to debrief last year, whatshisface? You were supposed to get him to Bunk Moreland.
Remember? Yeah.
I fucked up.
So what? So it mattered.
What the fuck does this have to do with Colicchio? It all matters.
I know we thought it didn't, but it does.
So you got to do Colicchio, huh? Guess you think they had to do me.
Yeah, probably.
These guys are gonna talk shit about you for a while.
But fuck 'em, Carv.
You do what needs done.
I was out on one.
You worked 8 to 4.
I'm working a serial killer.
They call me on any suspicious death.
Yeah? Where'd they reach you? Well, I'm not gonna lie.
Istopped, had a couple, then I got the call.
I know.
I can smell the Jameson's from here.
Jamie and Listerine, your scent.
BeadieI'm just We had something, Jimmy.
You and me, we had something.
When people told me stories about you, about how you were, I couldn't believe it, I couldn't see it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
10 minutes.
I got another one.
South Baltimore.
Beadie, I'm chasing a serial killer.
That's not all you're chasing.
Look, if you don't want to be here I got to go.
He changed up.
Marlo's no fool.
He know you be coming at him.
Word is, him and Chris went to the mattresses, on the move almost every night.
Fool enough to kick a sleeping dog.
That should tell you something.
I got the boy waiting on me, I ain't go at him straight up.
I go after his people, you feel me? You hurt enough of them, that snake gonna stick his head above that hole.
That one there, you know him? He's a lieutenant.
We gonna go after him first.
Mark that ride, yo.
Oscar.
Lester.
Thank you, baby.
Anytime, man.
Yeah.
All right.
He's perfect.
Can't be dead more than a couple of hours.
Better lose these.
You're a twisted fuck, McNulty.
Defense wounds.
Help sell it.
You got nerve calling me twisted.
You came up with the teeth.
You know how these psycho serial motherfuckers are.
They mature.
They start simple and crude and become more and more ornate.
There you go.
Don't tell my mother or my priest you saw me do this.
Take it to my grave.
Want me to take that? - Nah, I got it.
What you see in this hole, man? All the money you got? Your great-grandfather, first colored man to own his own house in Johnson Square.
That means something, something you young 'uns lost.
Yeah.
Well, we outside when you ready.
Keep sharp while I'm gone, boy.
Charles say Omar back.
He left Charles standing but he might feel less inclined if he get the drop on you or yours.
Ain't got to fret none about Omar.
No need for that.
You ain't come to see me off.
My nephew.
Boy was always a disappointment.
But I treated you like a son.
I wasn't made to play the son.
But my supply - the good dope? The Greeks, they cool with it.
Proposition, then.
I just step out the way.
You never hear from me again.
I just disappear.
Joe, you'd be up into mischief in no time.
Truth is, you wouldn't be able to change up any more than me.
Close your eyes.
It won't hurt none.
There.
There, now.
Joe, relax.
Breathe easy.

Joe will be missed.
Very much missed.
We liked Joe.
A hard man not to like.
Tomorrow ain't promised to no one.
Meanwhile, we go on.
In business, in life, what you learn to appreciate the most is a dependable man.
One day same as the next.
Yeah, I learned a lot from watching Joe.
We deal with you or your second.
No one else.
No one else knows our names.
No one else contacts us.
Understand? To contact us, use this only.
Man, I don't talk on no cellphones.
Here.
To call for lunch, you can talk.
To call your girl, you can talk.
To call your lawyer even, you can talk.
The law says that is between you and the lawyer.
Mmm.
All right? To find out what movie is playing down the street, you can talk.
All of that is good because all of that tells them there is nothing good to hear.
But, for business, do not talk on the phone.
Never.
Right.
I mean, Joe taught me that.
But what about What is Huh.
How'd that play? - Man overcame his grief.
Do it feel like a crown on your head right now? Do it? 'Cause that's what I'm wearin' on my head.
We should celebrate.
Yeah? Atlantic City.
Can't play like that now.
Omar gonna make a move.
You know this.
Mm-hmm.
Yo, I need to go past home.
You mind a ride? You know I like your peoples.
Fact is, I gotta tell 'em I'm not gonna be comin' round for a time.
You stepped up and made your play.
Now I gotta make mine.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole - At least four.
Got it.
We're going back through old cases, so we could find more than that.
What else? - And the motive now seems sexual.
What do you mean, sexual? Is someone sodomizing homeless men? You can't get that specific.
How can I not get specific? Just say the killer is acting from sexual compulsions.
Anything more detailed than that we need to keep in the case file.
I don't know, Detective.
Last time, I couldn't get it out front.
Let me run it by my desk and call you back.
All right? All right.
Anything late from cop shop? Follow-ups on the recent murders.
An arrest on one, which was the domestic cutting from Hampden.
No arrests in a couple of drug-relateds from East Baltimore.
OK, give me a bit for the budget line.
Domestic was a Patricia Boggus, found in her car.
Drug-relateds were one Joseph Stewart, found in his dining room, and one Nathaniel Manns, found in an alley garage.
A couple 'graphs on each.
Write it as a single short.
Also, I got word on another homeless murder.
The detective on it says it's related.
He says it's sexual.
Sexual? - They being raped? - He wouldn't confirm that.
He just says that the killings are sexual in nature.
Write what you got.
I'll run it by the four o'clock, see if it takes.
OK.
This indictment is the result of an 18-month investigation by the State's Attorney's office and the Baltimore Police Department.
And it shines a light on a cornerstone issue for any representative government - public trust of public servants.
Senator Davis abused that trust.
He traded on his power and influence so that he could use local businesses and campaign donors as his personal ATM machine.
He created a network of charitable and nonprofit organizations whose purpose was to accumulate cash for his private use, betraying Rhonda Pearlman? Bill Zorzi, covering federal court for The Sun.
Right.
How do you do? Not to be all petulant on your special day here, but since when does a prosecutor in this town stage a perp walk and not call the daily newspaper? We called Gail Gibson.
Left a message on her voicemail.
Gail left for a freelance gig four months ago.
Well, her voicemail still works.
Who's replacing her on city courts? From now on just don't jam me up like that again.
he must be held accountable for his fraudulent actions.
Senator Davis has opened our legislative body to monetary persuasions.
He has done this knowingly and with complete disregard for the office that he represents.
It is this kind of impropriety - How's it feel, Clay? Not much fun on the ass end, is it? You said it, Norman.
There's the short con and the long con.
You're gonna need a statement.
Nothing too joyful.
You don't dance on Clay's grave until you're sure the motherfucker's dead.
Clay ain't getting up from this.
Also, you don't want to piss off his base, being too gleeful about it.
That guy still has a base? After all the shit he's pulled? I'll tell you one thing - that fella right there is looking pretty damn mayoral.
More than Nerese, definitely.
With the profile he gets from this, I'd say it's Mr.
Bond's race to lose.
and remain under common court.
Senator Davis will have to account for that money.
What'd you tell your girl? - I'm going away on business.
I won't be around for a couple weeks.
Shouldn't be more than that.
Better not.
Miss Trainor say we gonna learn a problem like that - every day for this year and the next.
You mean memorize 'em? Yeah.
Learn it by heart.
Learn the question.
Learn the answer, too.
'Cause them questions gonna be on the MSA test next year.
She tell you that? Miss Trainor say if the scores don't go up before the selection all the teachers gonna get fired.
Selection? What she mean? When the people vote for whoever.
You mean an election? Nigger think you all that.
Now, why you gonna go and do that? - Dukie about to cry.
Fuck is wrong with you? Nothin' wrong with me! I'm gettin' stuff done.
You up in some house somewhere playin' like a lil' bitch.
Smack his faggoty little ass.
Get that little jog-ass! Finally, we've got that 40-inch thumbsucker on Bud Selig and baseball's half-hearted response to the latest recommendations on steroid use.
The owners think Bud is swell, the players' union is staying mum, Bonds has a home-run record and everyone's pretending the issue will go away.
And there's news in there? - What do you like for the front? The Clay Davis indictment, obviously.
Congressional hearings on Iraq.
Price's piece on how much Carcetti raised for his gubernatorial run is solid.
The feature on John Waters filming again in Baltimore could go out front if the art is good.
We have him posing with a couple of child actors.
Is that allowed? Now, now, let's not confuse the auteur with his art.
Anyone like anything else? - This came in late, this business about another homeless man being murdered, - that might have some play.
Other homeless men were murdered? We ran a short piece a week ago about possible connections in three cases.
Inside metro.
The motive's said to be sexual, but the cops are being cryptic about what exactly that means.
Well, we could run it inside, but report it some more, see where it goes.
Right now, it's a little vague for A-1.
OK, then, we'll see where we are in a couple hours.
I told you, Duke.
I fuck 'em up good.
Just say the word, man.
Nah, man, I can't have you steppin' up for me anymore, you know.
Yeah, well.
Talk to the man.
He'll set you straight.
Yo, Mr.
Dennis.
Eh? I need to train with you some.
See that.
What happened? It ain't no thing.
I'm gettin' a little tired of it, that's all.
A'ight, son.
Get some gloves on and let's see where you at.
It's all pretty straightforward.
I'm surprised your lawyers went to the trouble of getting it postponed.
Maybe 'cause we was payin' by the hour.
In any event, you got a lot going for you here.
Car registered to a front, guns in a secreted compartment.
The woman we registered it to, she can't do no time.
Just a name we used.
Then get someone who can.
Preferably someone without priors, someone you trust to stand the charge.
Also came past with this here.
More money made clean.
When you figure out what to do with that, holler at me.
How do I do that? Hmm.
Anything else? Nah, take me off your clock.
Fuckin' mope pisses me off.
Be generous.
I have a feeling this firm is going to have quite a payday from Mr.
Stanfield and his people.
He just gave me his phone number.
If Marlo Stanfield is using a cellphone, it's just a matter of time before we're up to our asses in pre-trial motions litigating a wiretap case.
Joe gave him to us just in time.
Work it back! Keep your hands up.
Like that.
Right.
Left.
Right.
Right.
What now? You need to attribute that? - What? - Fifth 'graph, the dependent clause.
The one about a "pattern of widespread influence-peddling "over a period of years.
" Either the indictment shows it or it doesn't.
Besides which, you begin three 'graphs in a row with a gerund.
Look.
How do you expect me to write with your fucking fingers in my eyes? At least let me turn my copy in before you stomp on it.
Attaboy, Zorz.
They want more reporting on this, but I don't see where it can go from here.
The cops are selling a sexual motive but they won't explain it any more than that.
Who are you dealing with? Detective who has the case.
And he wants publicity? Didn't know if you'd come back.
Took a lot of money with you.
It wasn't about the money, bro.
Wasn't never about that.
Is that him? Old Monk prefer the condo life, I see.
Too good for a row house.
Movin' with muscle, too.
Most likely they expectin' you to make a move.
An' here I am.
How 'bout that? Thanks for meeting me again.
This is Scott Templeton.
He'll be working the story with me.
I don't want everyone at your newspaper knowing my name.
Look, you want these homeless cases to get attention, right? That's what you're trying to do.
Guy's a predator.
People need to know.
Agreed.
And there are things you need to keep secret so that you can solve the murders, I get that.
We can't do much with this story unless we give it enough juice.
Juice? We need to tell people what this is about, why he's doing it.
We need to make this thing come alive on the page or they're gonna bury the story again.
I told you, it's sexual.
Compulsion.
Obsession, that kinda thing.
But what the fuck does that mean? It's not like he's carving up housewives or strangling coeds, here.
Your guy's killing homeless men.
Why, exactly? What's in his head? Is he raping them? Sodomizing them? I don't have any semen in any of the cases.
But he's doing something, right? He ties a red ribbon around their arms.
A red ribbon? - Yeah, a bow.
He giftwraps the motherfuckers.
That enough juice for you? Yeah, kinky, but no one kills people to tie ribbons around their arms.
Can we say they were molested? Is it fair to say that? - We'll go with molested, then.
You didn't get that from me.
Another round? - What else? You want this story to fly, give us something different.
Keep what you need, but give us something with a twist.
A sexual serial killer isn't enough? It's a cold world, I know.
He's started biting them.
What? He's biting his victims.
Inside thigh, right ass cheek, left nipple.
He's a biter.
Oh.
Shit.
Yeah.
That twisted enough for ya? Are we talkin' cannibalism here? Just biting for now.
We'll see where it goes.
And did he bite all of them? Not all.
Just the latest ones.
He's maturing.
Maturing? - Yeah, it's a technical term.
It's when a serial killer's becoming more obsessive.
He starts to develop an intricate pattern in what he does with the bodies.
It's weird stuff.
A biter.
That's great.
My name is nowhere on this.
For your tab.
We'd stay and have one, but we can still make the second edition.
Thanks.
So you thinkin' if you learn to fight some, people 'round the way gonna leave you be.
Thing is, even if you learn to fight, people gonna come at you just the same.
It ain't like the movies where you beat up one bully and the rest just back the hell up.
Let me ask, why you think they even bothering to come at you the way they do? I mean, why you? See, all I know is that right there.
I ain't never had no use for other things.
I could fight.
For a time there, I could run them corners.
Not much life outside that, really.
I was on the corner for a while.
How that go? Yeah, well I guess what I'm tryin' to say is not everything come down to how you carry it in the street.
I mean, it do come down to that if you gonna be in the street.
But that ain't the only way to be.
Round here it is.
Yeah.
Round here it is.
World is bigger than that, at least, that's what they tell me.
Likehow do you get from here to the rest of the world? I wish I knew.
Michael grew up fast.
Yeah, he did.
Anyway, for a kid like that, my onliest plan might be fine, you know? Might could work for a boy like that.
But a kid come to me with other skills, other way of being, all I got is hope and wishes.
That's something, I guess.
Wish it was more, son.
I do.
Thanks.
Attagirl.
Alma, you've got the investigation.
Anything from headquarters, that's you.
I thought I'd work back on the victims.
A profile of who these guys were.
That's a nice idea, but I already sent Fletcher out on that an hour ago.
What's left for me to do? - You can go and, ertalk to the homeless.
React quotes from the homeless? Just 'cause they're in the streets doesn't mean that they lack opinions.
Where am I gonna find homeless people? Not at home, I imagine.
Go, go, my children.
Read it and weep.
I already did.
So did the major.
So did the colonel.
So did our newly christened deputy ops.
Deputy's over at city hall right now.
That was quick.
Just 'cause you got some fuckin' reporter to buy your weak shit does not mean everyone else buys it.
Five gets you ten, deputy's over there right now, talking them back down to earth.
Is this nut raping them? I haven't debriefed the investigators in detail, but the office reports don't indicate penetration or ejaculation.
What can we say we're doing already? We've got good people working it.
It would be better if I could keep them on it.
You're talking overtime.
If you could lift the cap for this investigation Done.
Unlimited overtime for two detectives.
Anything they need.
Sir, a case like this, proactively trying to prevent additional murders, requires more than two detectives.
Deputy, the school board chairman is a short hair away from laying off 50 middle-school teachers and shutting down special education in every elementary school in violation of a federal consent decree.
If I've got more than an extra couple of dollars, you aren't getting it.
Embracing the hard choice.
It's one of the burdens of command.
Is there anything you can do to further protect the homeless? We can have patrol units spread the warning, try to convince anyone on the street to move into the city shelters after dark.
Can't you have police sit on locations where the homeless gather? And still answer the calls? Not without doubling up post units, which means overtime.
Overtime, again.
Blood in our veins, Mr.
Mayor.
Every day you look more like a boss.
Fuck you.
I didn't mean it like a bad thing.
Yeah, you did.
Yeah, I did.
What's that? - A gift from your one true partner.
Cellphone number, Marlo Stanfield.
How the fuck Don't ask, don't tell.
Like those guys sucking dick in the army.
Whatever else I ever did to piss you off, remember I also did this.
And, Carv? When you put the bracelets on that bitch, remind him again of my fuckin' camera.
You can tell all of 'em - Royce, the caucus, all them graspin' bitches who we put in every city department - you tell every last one that I do not fall alone.
Clay! You think I'm gonna be the scapegoat for the whole damn machine? Shit.
Clarence is going to stand with you.
He told me so.
He'll be out there.
Easy for him.
He ain't runnin' for nothin' no more.
I don't see you and your kind with me on this.
A whole mess o' people think they belong on the fence.
Clay, it is what it is.
Y'all better hope not.
Or it ain't gonna end with Clay Davis.
Just think about what you're saying here.
You can have yourself a pity party, talk all kinda shit to some prosecutor.
You know where you'll be then? Out in the damn cold.
No connections, no allies, nowhere to hang your hat in this damn town.
Or you carry this for all of us, carry it as far as you can.
And if the worst happens, if they take your seat, if you go away for a year or so to some minimum-security summer camp, then so what? You come home to a town that still knows your name.
Look at Burrell.
He goes quietly and now he's making 12 a year more than when he was commissioner, and working half the hours.
You think that happens if he does the piss-and-moan? Prosecutors come and prosecutors go.
But win or lose, you're still gonna be back around before we know it.
Am I right, Senator Davis? Mm-hmm.
You want me to find another carry-out? - Someplace closer? - You don't like this food? I don't like the way them Chinky motherfuckers be acting sometimes.
The way they be lookin' at me.
Don't worry about it.
Chris with you? Behind me.
What you got on? - What? You want that faggot to know we waitin' on his ass? Just bein' careful is all.
If I can see the vest, you don't think that he could see the vest? I'm the one that's baitin' him.
I'm the only one not hidin' out.
Ain't no thing.
'Cause when Omar come at you, he gon' be gunnin' at your head.
I know I would be.
Stayed outside of Monk's all night.
They left before morning, though.
They'll be back.
No doubt.
Do you hear a lot of concern regarding these murders? - I haven't heard anybody mention it.
No? Most of the folks we serve aren't actually homeless.
Most are working poor.
So most of the people I interviewed here weren't Homeless? No.
Some, maybe.
Why didn't you - You seemed to be getting along OK.
I didn't want to ruin it for you.
Where would you suggest I go? Streets, maybe.
The reporter the Sun paper sent over, not exactly Bob Woodward.
Hell of a job, Bubs.
But we need help tomorrow waiting tables in the back room.
If you don't like it, then I won't ask again.
Gotta hold it with both hands, you know? Tryin' to hit what you aimin' at, a'ight? It's not like they do in the movies, it's not gonna work.
A'ight, so, come on, spread your legs.
What's the first thing you gotta do? Jack a round in the chamber.
Like this, watch.
Go ahead.
It's hard to do.
A'ight.
So then try this.
It's a tool, just like a monkey wrench, that's all it is, a'ight? - I didn't know it was gon' be so loud.
Why you want to do this? What is you thinkin', Duke? You think if you start carryin' ain't nobody gonna try you? Nah.
Somebody's always gonna try you.
An' if they know that you carryin' they gonna make you come out with it.
An' once you come out with it, you gotta be ready to go all the way.
You can't bring it out unless you willin' to use it.
Can't be no doubt.
Man, can't shoot, can't fight.
Can't even stand on the damn corner.
You got other skills, man.
You smart like that.
I don't know, Bunk.
You can't believe everything you read nowadays.
Well, my little shit-stirrer.
As per your request for additional manpower and man hours, unlimited overtime has been approved for the investigation into the killings of homeless men for you and one other detective only.
What about surveillance teams? We need to be watching places, watching the smokehounds.
Two detectives only.
You and the stalwart detective Greggs here are what has been authorized.
Nothing beyond that.
What the fuck, Jay? I'm working a serial killer here.
It's a red ball.
Hence the overtime.
But two detectives working a red ball? What the fuck's wrong with this city? We need hours for a dozen men.
We need surveillance vehicles, cameras.
What do you want from me? Ain't you still working that triple from two weeks ago? I got stuff I could run down on that, yeah, but Jay put me on this here.
Come here.
Do you even see how fucking wrong you are? Do you even see it? They're gonna pay for this case, Bunk.
This is just the beginning.
What case? You just took a real detective off a real case.
I'll fix that.
But eventually these motherfuckers are gonna pay out enough for us to do Marlo Stanfield.
Just watch and learn.
You've lost your fucking mind, Jimmy.
Look at you.
Half-lit every third night, dead drunk every second.
Nut deep in random pussy.
What little time you do spend sober and limp-dicked, you're working murders that don't even exist.
Take the OT and work the hell out of your triple.
Don't worry about your reports, I'll cover you.
What the fuck is going on? - Work your triple.
I'll cover every hour of it from my case file.
Excuse me, sir.
Sir! I'm with the Baltimore Sun.
Can I talk with you? You make an appointment? Sorry.
I'm booked up all afternoon.
I'm doing a story on the homeless men who've been killed.
You heard about that? You got two dollars on you, right? I was wondering if the murders had changed things for you and the other fellas out here.
You wanna know about them murders? - That's why I'm here.
Wanna know who's doing it? - Do you know who's doing it? - I do.
Can you handle hearing it? - What's your name? Nathan Levi Boston.
And you know who the killer is? Do you believe Satan walks the earth in a fleshly form? That Satan can occupy the souls of men? And he's just getting started.
There's gonna be a lot more dead before it's over.
Hundreds.
Maybe thousands.
They told me they still had you working outta this shithole but I didn't believe it.
It ain't much but it's been months since a boss has been able to find me.
You still have some interest in Marlo Stanfield, right? That's his cell.
He stopped using cellphones.
Ellis, how? Police work, Detective.
Police work.
Yo, this the High Hat? - Say what? Y'all still open for carryout? I want some of that pepper steak.
Wrong number, fool.
I wish I could tell you it's a shock, but it seems to happen in every city where we get us a place inside the power structure - and we become targets.
I know you're right.
I'm not saying it's a black-white thing.
The State's Attorney, Mr.
Bond, he's black.
But if it serves his purpose - gets his name in the news, ups his profile - he'll do whatever the folks pulling the strings want.
Whether it be character assassination, tie the noose in the rope, whatever.
But they picked the wrong man this time.
They must not heard about you, Senator.
I don't run from a fight.
I know that.
The people know I'm talkin' 'bout the people now.
The people know what I've done for West Baltimore and this city.
They know the battles I fight in Annapolis every day.
They know these charges ain't nothing but BS.
Hey, hold it now, it's radio.
I gotta hold my tongue, I know.
I don't want nobody pullin' y'all's broadcasting license, so I can't say it like I feel it.
But I wanted to come here on your show tonight - and thank you so much for the opportunity, my brother - but I wanted your listeners to be the first to hear it from my mouth.
I have committed no crime, and I am gonna keep on doing the people's work without breaking stride.
Thank you for that, Senator.
And also I want everybody to know there's going to be a gathering at the Mitchell courthouse tomorrow at two o'clock, so that people can be heard on this.
I hope they come out in good numbers.
Two o'clock on Calvert Street.
It's time to lift every voice.
I heard that.
Three detectives for a 24-hour wiretap.
Four more for a couple of two-man surveillance teams.
A pair of unmarked cars.
I'm not asking the world here, Cedric.
Lester, if I had it, you'd have it.
That's the cell number of the motherfucker who put 22 bodies on us! - Go to the fucking mayor! - I've been to the mayor.
I've been to him on my knees twice.
Once for your case, remember? And all I could bring back was two men to work Clay Davis.
And yesterday, for the serial killer that homicide was working, two men only.
I've done my job.
I've gone up the ladder every time.
But if a fucking serial killer can't bring back more than a couple detectives, what the hell does it matter that you have a fresh phone number? More manpower's been assigned, according to the PIO.
Did I get that story back? - Mm-hmm.
And? I led with the first victim.
Ex-Marine.
Bronze-star in Vietnam.
His family begged him to come home, which he would do now and then, but they hadn't seen him in a month before the murder.
Good shit.
Real good shit.
Late, but you got the goods, right? Half of these guys are whack jobs, the other half just want to borrow a fin.
But yeah, I got good stuff.
Got a family of four under the Hanover Street Bridge.
Father broke down and cried when I talked to him, talking about how he couldn't protect himself, couldn't protect his kids.
Mother just kept stroking the youngest one's blonde hair.
We got names on this, right? - Yeah.
Guy's name is Boston.
Nathan Levi Boston.
OK, you got 30 inches, if you need them.
You're going off the front in a package with Alma and Fletch.
Olesker wrote a pretty damn good column, too, for metro front.
Go, go.
Write, write.
This serial killer is making one Baltimorean very, very happy.
Clay Davis.
One news cycle, and his indictment's gonna be off the front page.
Well, if it bleeds, it leads.
A fucking serial killer.
I give them a sex-crazed madman who's enough of a freak show to get the whole city hot and bothered and what comes back? One fucking detective.
And who is it? Kima Greggs, who should be working her triple.
So now I can't give you her hours without fucking up honest casework.
Well, now it's easier, Jimmy.
We don't need as much.
Now we need a wiretap.
I can monitor that myself.
Shit, anything we get up is gonna be illegal anyway.
So we don't want anyone getting near it.
Sydnor, maybe.
I can trust him.
You start pulling information off that phone, you're gonna need at least a couple of surveillance cars in the street.
We'll worry when we get there.
The important thing is that he's making it easy for us.
Before, with all that face-to-face, we were gonna need what? Remote cameras, microphones, half a dozen guys working surveillance 24 hours.
But now he's talking on a phone, and I got him.
So how do we squeeze a wiretap out of my serial killer? He's gotta call someone.
Who? The mayor.
Cardinal Keeler.
Cal fucking Ripken.
Who gives a fuck? A bullshit number on the paperwork to the courthouse, Marlo's cell number on the tap itself.
This is fucking genius.
Or not.
If that's about your case, you need to answer it.
Remember you're working a serial killer.
Nah, it's my ex-wife.
Been calling all night.
Like I got time for her fucking bullshit.
They got to believe it's your killer calling before they'll pay for a wiretap.
Well, fine.
Fuck it.
Call your buddy Oscar, tell him we need another body.
This time the sick motherfucker is gonna call Mr.
Ripken with something only the killer could know.
That should shake 'em up enough for a couple of wiretaps.
Monk sure do like to retire early.
Three go in and one come out.
Better odds.
We're gonna wait on it, though.
They'll get better still.
If not tonight, then the next.
You're a patient man.
Him too.
I tried to reach you on your cell all day.
I called Beadie, she had no idea - I know.
It's my fault.
They still up? - Yes.
Hey, guys.
Hey, Dad.
Listen, Sean, I did everything I could to get to your play tonight.
Hey, Mike.
It's cool.
No worries.
Your mom said you were great.
Why don't you do it now? Let me hear it.
I don't know.
It's lame like that.
You gotta see the whole play.
What band is that? - Dead Meadow.
Dead metal? - Meadow.
Dead Meadow.
What the hell's wrong with the Ramones? I'll make it up to them next weekend.
Take 'em to a ball game.
Hey, this is life, Jimmy.
This is the stuff that actually matters.
I know.
I talked to Beadie.
She knows she's losing you.
Like I knew.
I'm not judging.
I'm not saying this to hurt you.
But she knows.
And she's ready for it, the way that I was ready for it.
You're drinking.
You're out all night.
She doesn't know where you are.
And she's no fool, Jimmy.
I'm sad that it wasn't with me but I'm glad for you.
I know, you can imagine that? I was glad that you found her.
Mmm, I was glad for her, even.
For a while there, you were happier than I've ever seen you.
She's great.
She is.
Don't do this.
Hey.
You all right, Bubs? I'm good.
Good.
Except for somethin' that's been on my mind.
But I see you into somethin' - I can take a minute.
Need to find somethin' out.
But at the same time I don't know if I really wanna know.
It's best to know, Bubs.
I'm living proof.
They got drugs an' shit now.
Why's it on your mind now? Been volunteering down Viva House, doin' like you told me.
Man say he want me to serve food.
You can.
It don't travel like that.
I know they say so, but I feel I don't know.
I went down to the clinic on my own yesterday, got as far as the door, but - Tough to go alone.
Yeah.
Gimme ten minutes.
So, where do we take it today? Unless the story develops, I think we've covered the bases.
Alma can check on things and see where we're at by afternoon.
You owe me a Govans story.
And you need to get with Shane on that school series.
I don't know, Gus.
I think this thing has legs.
Maybe I go out with the cops on their rounds.
Watch 'em warn the homeless.
Good thought, but Alma can work that into whatever she has.
Yeah? Hey.
Busy? No, just, uh Jimmy's not in yet.
I know.
He's sleeping one off.
Late night, huh? - They're all like that now.
Relax, I'm not looking for a snitch.
I know you're his partner in crime.
I don't care.
Whoa, Beadie.
I just want to know from you where this is going.
I mean, you know him.
You know what it is that he can and can't do.
Don't know if I can speak on that.
Look, I'm ready to put him out, OK? For me, for my kids.
I mean, if, in the end, if this is all there is to him.
If he can't be better than this, I just want to know.
He's working this case right now.
Serial killer, actually.
You are not gonna try to tell me that this is about a case.
Try that shit on some civilian.
Look, he'll get his head in a certain place, he'll take a drink.
I mean, a lot of us will.
It's more than just a drink he's taking.
Beadie, I can't tell you what to do.
I don't like giving up.
OK, I gotta go back to work.
Thanks for letting me vent.
You want to get started today? - Sooner we decide on - After lunch, yeah.
Finally found a line, huh? - Mm-hmm.
Know that wasn't easy.
They been hidin' for years.
I'm a pro.
Me, too.
Let me ask you - Hmm? When do the results come back? About an hour from this test.
There you go.
And they want you to believe that there's only one side to this story, and that their so-called facts cannot be denied.
But we have some facts of our own, don't we? Yeah! - We know who our leaders are.
That's right.
And we don't want them picking our leaders for us, do we? No! And we will not stand idly by as they single out our leaders and selectively prosecute, - or should I say persecute them - That's right! just because they have the courage and the fortitude to stand up for us.
Let them hear you.
Let them hear you loud and clear.
Clay Davis isn't going anywhere, is he? No! - We need him, we're going to keep him - That's right! and damn anyone who says otherwise.
Clay Davis! What the fuck is this I hear about you might not stand tall on this? You got that wrong, old friend.
I'm gonna carry this.
You damn sure better.
Because if you don't, you won't be able to squeeze another greenback out of this town for the rest of your natural life.
We shall not be, we shall not be moved We shall not be, we shall not be moved Ooh, la, la! Lookie here.
The fuck is that? - A change of pace.
They look kinda hot with their clothes on.
Hey, Clarice.
Your serial killer called the Baltimore Sun.
Some goof claiming to be your guy called a reporter.
One of the guys writing this shit up.
Gotta be a crank call.
Probably so.
But seeing as it's the fucking newspaper you go over there and you set them straight.
Go ahead.
Negative.
Negative means - I know what it means.
Must be wrong.
It ain't wrong.
All the shit I done.
All the works I shared.
My best boy years back? I fired off the same hypo as him dozens of times.
He had the bug for sure.
That shit ain't right nohow, man.
You're disappointed.
Shit, this ain't about the bug, is it? This is you tryin' to make the past be everything, mean everything.
You don't even wanna think about the here and now.
Sorry, Bubs.
Shame ain't worth as much as you think.
Let it go.
He said he wanted people to know there'd be 12 bodies before he's finished.
He said, quote, "I came to take 12.
" I said, "What happens after 12?" He said, quote, "I go somewhere else," unquote.
I asked him about the bite marks.
He said that they wanted him to bite, they asked for that.
He complained that the article made him sound like a pervert.
I asked him if he was angry at the men.
He hung up.
He called you on your cellphone? Why didn't he call the paper? I was all over the city yesterday handing my cards out to homeless men.
He probably got the number from a card.
Shit, I might've handed him a card.
I think this is the guy.
I mean, a chill ran down my back.
But there's no way to know.
I mean, if it's some other nut, we're gonna look like fools if we print this.
Your cellphone caught the number? He dialed you.
Yeah, I dialed it back.
Payphone on South Hanover near West Street.
What did he sound like? - What do you mean? You talk to people for a living.
Did he sound black, white? Younger, older? High-pitched voice or low? Uh, he sounded, to me, like a white guy.
Not a deep voice, but calm, almost monotone.
He sounded older, I would say, 40s.
Not a real young guy.
Can I have your notebook? - You can't have his notes.
As this isn't a confidential source, we won't invoke the Maryland Shield law, but he'll type up a copy for you.
But the actual document is property of the Baltimore Sun.
So type it up, like, now.
So, you're saying this could be the killer? Can we talk off the record? The homicide unit received a phone call this morning from a payphone from the same neighborhood, and based on Scott's voice description, and the use of the number 12 let's just say we need to find whoever it was made both those calls.
He made another call? Detective, as a newsman, I'm inclined to include these details in our coverage if there's a credible chance the killer was in contact with our reporter.
Would doing so have any negative effect on your investigation? Actually, these calls are our best means of finding this guy.
Every call he makes, every word he says, to you and to us, can only provide information.
If we do run a story - You can't say he's contacted police.
You can't print that part of it under any circumstances.
OK, then how do we characterize what the police think - about this call to Scott? - You can say that we're, uh taking it seriously.
Going forward, is it possible that you would grant a one-party consent for us to monitor your reporter's cellphone and office phones? - Absolutely not.
I'm sorry, Detective, but our ability to report is dependent upon our maintaining the confidentiality of our conversations.
We're perfectly willing to share with you the information this individual has as he's definitely not a confidential source.
But we're not going to consent to the Baltimore Police Department monitoring our phones.
You'll tap the payphone, I guess.
Don't print that, either.
Don't print anything about where the killer calls from.
He'll change up.
Well, I'll type up my notes quick.
Big story for you guys, huh? - Well, ten minutes ago I'd've said this whole thing was complete bullshit.
Shows what I know, I guess.
which is why I'm gonna fight this thing.
I am innocent and I have done nothing except serve the people.
Oh, I believe you, Senator.
I've seen the good work you've done for the community That's Eddie Cantor, right? No.
It's perfect.
McNulty, it's perfect.
I couldn't believe it.
I'm sitting there, all this bullshit coming at me, thinking, Christ, this is a waste of time.
Then I realized - this is the wiretap.
Right here.
They're giving it to me.
Never mind me making a crank call.
This right here is Lester Freamon's motherfucking wire.
What if they check this? How many guys in this unit have ever hooked up a wiretap? They don't know which wire goes where.
Explain it to me again, because I think I'm a smart guy, but this shit makes my head hurt.
They think they're up on your killer's cellphone, but they'll never catch a call because this goes nowhere.
And meanwhile, using the same court authorization, I'm on the live wire down at the detail office, listening to Marlo.
Every day, you file office and court reports saying there's been no further contact with the serial killer.
I file exactly nothing, but use what I hear to rig the case on our real target.
And when it goes to court No mention of a wiretap.
It's all based on a CI.
There it is.
Four copies signed by the judge.
Emergency order for telephonic intercept of a cellphone, number 410-915-0909.
If the machine is rigged, you're good to go.
You're up.
Good hunting.
Howie? - Yo.
You got midnight shift.
Worden'll be in to relieve you at six.
After Worden, my squad will pick up monitoring on the dayshift.
Excuse me.
Don't look so pissy.
We're actually paying overtime for this.
O- dog! My leg! Stay the fuck down! What the Damn.
What the
Gotta be somewhere.
You wanna keep goin'? Officer Smith, ma'am.
We're looking for a man went after a woman last night at Esplanda Apartments.
Heard anything unusual? - No, sorry.
Oh, my God, that's terrible.
Is the woman all right? - Huh? - The woman, is she all right? Yeah.
Yeah, she good.
Excuse me.
My brother, Omar Little, came here last night.
He fell out the damn window.
We don't have anyone by that name.
He was kinda high.
Probably messed up his name.
Real dark, got himself a scar.
Legs should be busted up real bad.
No one with that type of injury came in last night.
Not a goddamn thing.
Been in every trash can, dumpster, vacant for three blocks 'round.
Nothin'.
We even checked down the sewers.
Marlo wanna meet.
So what you want us to do? Which one? - Don't seem possible.
It don't.
That some Spider-Man shit there.
We missed our shot.
Now he gonna be at us.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole Usually, my staff tries to keep sharp objects out of my hands.
You know, it all started with Charles Center and Tommy d'Alesandro and it continued with William Donald Schaefer and Harborplace.
And following that, there were mayors Schmoke and O'Malley with Inner Harbor East.
Well, today it is my administration's turn to lay claim to the middle branch of the Patapsco and what will soon become known as New Westport, revitalizing another waterfront area of our great city.
Thank you.
Say goodbye to Locust Point South.
Fuck you, Krawczyk.
Yeah, fuck you, greedhead motherfucker.
Fuck you for tearing down the port of Baltimore and selling it to some yuppie assholes from Washington.
C'mon, buddy.
This is bullshit.
Who the hell's that? - That's nobody, Mr.
Mayor.
It's nobody at all.
You happy now, bitch? - I am content, yes.
You called the reporter? - No, actually.
That asshole's making up his own shit.
Brass called a press conference for this afternoon.
They'll be shoveling so much money at my bullshit it'll make your head spin.
What's with all the casework? - Bodies from the vacants.
Some still missing lab work.
Pathetic And some of them have been worked pretty good.
You know what, Jimmy? I'm gonna go back to the beginning and work every one of them again.
Back to square one.
You know why? Because I'm a murder police.
I work murders.
I don't fuck with no make-believe, I don't jerk shit around.
I catch a murder and I work it.
Working this shit like I'm supposed to.
Well, let me know if you need anything, all right? Cars, some OT, some lab work Anything you need.
Because in three or four hours the money's gonna flow on my case.
Whatever you need, I'm probably gonna have more of it than even Lester could use.
To be that close to a serial killer.
It must be weird.
Kinda.
Yeah.
Wonderful story, Scott.
Yeah, well, it kinda wrote itself.
It's lucky to have the guy call me like he did It comes from pounding the pavement, right? That's more than luck.
That's putting yourself in the place where the story comes to you.
What do you have for tomorrow? - Tomorrow? This is not the kind of thing we let go of after a day or two.
I, um I was thinking that if I spent a night with the homeless, you know.
Did what they did.
Saw what they saw.
If it's an overnight thing, I couldn't get it for tomorrow, but the next day, sure That's great.
That could be the perfect follow.
I'll speak to Gus.
We've been taking calls from some of the networks and cable outlets.
They're looking for you to go on-camera.
Me? On television? I'd avoid locals, but if you can do the national stuff responsibly Sure, yeah.
I mean, I'm just not all that comfortable having myself in the center of the story like this.
Of course not.
But there is a way of handling this responsibly.
Just remember you're an ambassador for the paper.
Star time.
Yeah.
How about that? - Homelessness? - Our coverage should reflect the Dickensian aspect of the homeless.
The human element.
Scott will lead it off, spending a night on the streets and writing from that perspective.
He's the lead on your education project.
We need to get him back on the I don't see the school project as yielding the same kind of impact as our attention to homelessness can.
These murders, the phone call to our reporter.
It really opens up the issue.
Yeah, but - From now to the end of the year, let's focus not only on covering the murders, but on the nature of homelessness itself.
The Dickensian aspect of it.
Yeah.
I've reached a point, Detective Sydnor, where I no longer have the time or patience left to address myself to the needs of the system within which we work.
I'm tired.
You're gonna quit? Not yet.
Not just yet.
So what are you talking about? When they took us off Marlo this last time, when they said they couldn't pay for further investigation, I regarded that decision as illegitimate.
Illegitimate? - And so I'm responding in kind.
I'm going to press a case against Marlo Stanfield without regard to the usual rules.
I'm running an illegal wiretap on Marlo Stanfield's cell phone.
Fuck.
Lester? - If you have a problem with this, I understand completely and I urge you to get as far fucking away from me as you can.
You remember this one here? I backed away from jackin' the boy up outta respect for that goofy motherfucker Prez.
Wonder what the young man might tell me a year later, though Bunk.
What the fuck is this? - Vernon here did a search warrant on his dead guy's appliance store, pulled all of that out of the desk drawer.
Grand jury shit? - Transcripts, sealed indictments - Who's your murder? - Eastside dealer by the name of Joe Stewart.
Caught one in the back of his head the other night.
Somebody finally touched Prop Joe.
You remember when Narcotics indicted Charlie Burman last year? Motherfucker ran a couple days before the raids, still on the wing.
The sealed indictments are all in there.
Every one of 'em.
Who don't we trust at the courthouse? - They put cheese on them fries? - They can.
Chili too.
All right, then.
You want a drink with that? - Strawberry lemonade.
All right, I'm on it.
They're back on cell phones.
After more than a year? - That they are.
Tell me they're talking in code, Lester.
I wanna go to jail for snatchin' something better than Marlo's lunch order.
There's no code that I can tell.
Half dozen calls.
All routine.
No drug talk, no numbers, no times.
Nothing but what they seem.
So he ain't doing business with the phone then.
Take this mess down.
Let's get outta here.
I also have five calls, each one picked up on the first ring, each one with nothing whatsoever said between parties.
You see? When they talk, it's bullshit.
But there are calls where no one says a thing.
Thirty seconds, without conversation.
Is he We talked it through, he knows the risks.
I'm in.
If it makes the fucking case, I'm in all the way.
So, what's up now? They talking dirt? - No.
Lester.
Fuck.
Marlo's not gonna talk dirt on the phone, but there's something to this.
I just haven't figured it out.
We could use some more manpower, a couple of surveillance teams to get on these guys to see how they using the phones.
You see the newspaper today? Headline like that, the bosses are gonna start throwing money at the homeless murders.
When they do, I'll peel off a couple detectives, throw them your way.
The homeless murders? How does that case tangle in with this? Hard to explain.
Remember what the DNC folks told me two years ago? How to take the statehouse? Build something downtown and stick your name on it, get the crime to go down, and stay away from schools.
And keep my boyish good looks.
One out of four ain't bad.
Jesus.
Did we have to schedule this the same day as New Westport? My good news isn't even going to make the front of the local section.
The ribbon-cutting was scheduled two weeks ago.
No one saw the homeless thing coming.
First of all, I'm surprised to see so much media here.
A press event held earlier today to announce the revitalization of yet another part of our city was not so well attended.
It would appear that media attention is always focusing on the negatives in Baltimore, but you aren't around when we're making real progress.
Nevertheless, I'm glad to see so many of you here.
Some of you representing not just our local media, but national attention to this problem.
Thank you for caring enough about our most vulnerable citizens to address yourselves to this tragedy.
Our homeless citizens, those who have fallen through the cracks of our society, those who command the least of our attentions and efforts, they seemingly have little to endear themselves to politicians.
They don't vote, by and large.
They don't contribute to campaigns.
They offer little to a city's tax base, and to the extent that our government is made aware of their existence, it responds by trying to mitigate the damage done by their presence.
We open a food bank here, a shelter there.
We try to move them away from downtown, away from our communal areas, away from our schools, away from our homes.
If you were to judge our society by the manner in which we treat those lost on our streets, we would have cause to be shamed.
Well, I am, God forgive me, a politician.
But I ran for public office because I believe that there is a different way of governing.
And I believe that in the end we will be judged not by the efforts we make on behalf of those who vote for us, who contribute to our campaigns, or those who provide for our tax base.
I believe that we will be judged by what we provide to the weakest and most vulnerable.
That is the test.
That is my test.
Somebody is killing homeless men in this city.
Taking the lives of fellow citizens who do not have the means or the strength to properly protect themselves.
They will be stopped.
We will do everything in our power to stop them.
You have my word on this.
Thank you, Mr.
Mayor.
What got into you? - What? I want to assure the public that we are doing everything possible in our power to apprehend this subject.
Homicide detectives are working around the clock.
District officers are in contact with the agencies that work with the homeless.
I cannot go into specifics of the investigation but, with that caveat, I will take questions.
Commissioner, is there any connection between these murders and those in the vacant homes last year? No connection.
Commissioner, are you asking the FBI to join in the investigation? I think Deputy Commissioner Daniels is in a position to elaborate on that.
We'll take whatever help is offered.
Our detectives will work closely with the behavioral analysis unit at Quantico Deputy, even with all the resources at your disposal, isn't it extremely difficult to catch a serial killer? Our ability to secure genetic material and the growing DNA data bank are assets unavailable to us even a few years ago.
Our ability to effectively use resources has been increased with the aid of sophisticated computer software.
And we have some of the best criminal investigators in the nation working 24/7.
As the mayor made very clear a moment ago, this is now a priority for the department.
Has a note been found at any of the scenes? I'm not at liberty to go into any details of the investigation at this time.
You want me to hang? He told you who I am, right? Son, the thing about murder is it never goes off the books.
I mean, we work on 'em for weeks, months, years.
We keep on with it until finally someone decides they've had enough, until we get the right word from the right person.
And you know what happens then? When a case does go down All those people who kept quiet about it, who lied about it, all of them who thought it wasn't coming back on 'em, they end up catchin' a charge.
And they get time behind that.
Time, huh? You gonna give me time? If you know something about that boy Lex getting shot, now is your last chance to speak to that.
You gave a statement last year - Why don't you promise to get me outta here? That's what y'all do, ain't it? Lie to dumbass niggers? Yo, y'all need to get this police out my face before I bank his ass.
You're a natural, kiddo.
You had 'em eating out of your hand.
Shit, I was just following the mayor's lead.
He wants a full-court press, right? We can add a detective or two.
And you can ask patrol to concentrate on posts where vagrants congregate.
But other than that, deputy, the cupboard is bare.
But Carcetti - Make no mistake.
He wants us to solve the murders.
He just doesn't want it to cost.
Don't look so shocked.
You're runnin' with the big dogs now.
Heh.
Isn't it enough that we're up on the killer's cell phone? Couldn't you track him on the GPS chip? He's using a burner and we suspect he's taking out the battery between calls.
And there's nothing to stop him from changing phones, calling the reporter from a new number.
So you want to tap the reporter's phone as well? It stands to reason that we should monitor this thing from both ends.
It's what we would normally do.
Nothing about this is normal.
A Baltimore Sun reporter's phone is problematic.
We need to strike a balance between your needs as investigators and the First Amendment rights of the Sun and its sources.
The First Amendment does not guarantee privacy, Your Honor.
Legal precedent clearly indicates - Look, I'm not saying that we can't, but - But what? Until we get the sense that your suspect is changing phones, I'm not inclined to look with favor on tapping the Baltimore Sun's telecommunications.
We're afraid to piss them off? - Never pick a fight with anyone who buys ink by the barrelful.
Christ.
Very well, judge.
How many enemies do you need? Deputy.
Where did you get all this? - Darling, you do not want to know.
What's up with you? Got all 22 out of the drawer? - Workin' the whole mess at once.
I'm trying to see 'em fresh.
It comes back to Marlo and his people.
For sure? A good informant tells me so.
Says one of my vics was talking bad about Mr.
Stanfield, who took it personal.
Killed him, his girl, his muscle.
Left the little kids alive, so I guess he ain't all bad.
People out there so scared of this motherfucker, I can't get close to an eyewitness on any of it.
Where you at with the rest of these cases? - We don't even have lab work on 14 of these bodies.
A year later I'm still walking in written requests to Landsman, who just files them away in his drawer.
McNulty would've called a news reporter.
I am not him.
Well, what would the Bunk do? Take no for a fucking answer? We had cutbacks, you know that.
We lost three or four trace examiners.
Lost half our clerical.
The freezer went bad, we lost four months of blood samples.
Did you know that? Four months of evidence and they still haven't replaced my damn icebox.
My heart pumps purple piss for you.
Now, I got the worst mass murder in B-more history and you can't get the trace work back to me inside of a year? C'mon, Ron Look You can't go to the press.
I mean, heads will roll if this gets out.
It isn't anyone's fault.
In fact, it's a little bit on you, i-in a way.
The fuck you say? After Annette took retirement, the casework got backed up worse than ever, right? Well, we put in to fill the lab assistant slot, but with the cutbacks, the best they could give us was a temp.
A temp? - Yeah.
No medical.
No pension.
A temp hire to get us over for a while.
Come on, I'll show you something.
She was assigned to sort and file the individual trace elements Hair, fiber mostly You know, from each of the 14 scenes.
So what's the problem? In the initial paperwork, you wrote out all 22 CC numbers, right? - Right.
But in the supplemental requests, you put all the incidents under the initial CC and then you wrote, "et al," remember? - So? - She didn't know what "et al" meant.
And she sorted everything under the single complaint number.
You don't fucking mean - Yeah.
We have no idea which one of your scenes any of this shit came from.
Oh - We don't have a clue.
Actually, except for this she's been a pretty good employee.
Surveillance teams.
Two each on 12-hour shifts.
I need them to set up on certain locations common to our cases.
C'mon, Jay.
You heard the mayor.
This case is a redball.
That it is.
You can have Greggs, if you want.
The last time I offered her up, you kicked her back to her own casework.
Other than a second detective, you are on your own.
So it's all bullshit.
I dunno.
I thought the mayor gave a very nice speech.
I, for one, was moved.
Much like the bull to which you just referred.
Tell you one thing - What's that? Motherfucker whose got the connect, he the one that did Joe.
Oh, no doubt.
Y'all know the co-op took some hits.
Joe.
Hungry Man.
Good people, especially Joe.
Their passin' was for real, cold-blooded.
I know what you thinkin', so I'm-a put it out there I'm responsible.
A week or so back, I made a move on Omar, with Joe's approval.
The fagot ain't had heart enough to come at me, so he come at those close to me.
Now I'm doublin' the bounty.
Hundred large for a whiff of that dicksuck.
Two hundred fifty for his head.
What about the connect? - I got that covered.
And in light of that fact, I'm-a take it upon myself to conduct this meet.
Slim, I want you take over Hungry Man's slice of the cake.
Meanin' no disrespect, but I ain't cut out to be no CEO.
Hm.
Cheese, then.
No problem, man.
Got you covered.
Until we settle up with Omar, I think it's best we suspend these meets.
In fact, I ain't really one for meets nohow.
Anybody got a problem here on out, bring it to me, or sit on that shit.
Those of you on the Westside who need to re-up, holler at my man Monk.
He gonna handle supply over there.
On the Eastside, Cheese.
One more thing.
Price of the brick going up.
Thirty more.
All right.
Enough of this shit.
What? Next year for the schools.
From now until December, we're all about the plight of the homeless.
The Great Whiting has spoken.
I appealed to Klebanow half an hour ago but he gave me the thumbs down.
I'm sorry.
Check it out, people.
Our Metro desk has some national profile.
We're being careful to cooperate with the investigators in every way.
My newspaper has no desire to get between the police and the suspect.
But still, wouldn't you agree it's an incredible moment for any journalist to come face to face with that type of pure evil like the Son of Sam? That makes you the Jimmy Breslin of Baltimore.
Well, no, I wouldn't say that.
I mean But knowing you have been in contact with a killer, are you at all concerned about continuing to report from the street? No, not at all.
I mean, this is what we do.
As a reporter, you expect to be in harm's way at some points.
It's what we do.
Agreed.
It's what you do.
But very rarely does a reporter end up being in the middle of a story - an ongoing story - about a murderer who is still at large and posing a severe and deadly risk to the You shoulda heard Phelan this morning.
Too scared to tap the newspaper phones they might shit on him for it.
Fuckin' hack judge.
What would you want with more wires? We got all we need.
I don't want another wire.
It's the principle of the thing It just pissed me off listening to him.
Oh, yeah, no surveillance cars.
They won't go beyond me and Greggs.
You and Sydnor will have to work it as best you can for right now.
Assholes.
They need another body, don't they? I'll call our man in the Southern.
I can take it from here.
Y'all can bounce.
All right, boss.
What up, Rick? Just like ol' times for me and you.
Whatever you want it's yours, all right? - Tonight, I'm just gonna take yo' jump - And leave you with a little something.
What's that? My word in your ear.
I'm callin' Marlo a straight bitch.
I'm sayin' it don't take much to shoot down a blind man.
And as for him steppin' to me, you tell that dude he ain't got the heart.
All right.
You tell that man I'm in the street, waiting.
Just like a little bitch, he ain't nowhere to be found.
I'll tell him.
I will.
Pick up your keys and go on inside, yo.
You kill Joe? Hungry? Didn't think so.
What now? There's more than one way to skin a case.
Already ran them for priors, right? Priors, yeah.
But I'm gonna run every name you guys developed through the entire database.
Not just for priors, but for anything at all in the Miles system.
Court appearances, parole, probation, gun permits, DOC, open bails.
You're playing long shots, huh? - Darlin', I'm playin' the hand I've been dealt.
An H-file? - Who caught the case? - Worden.
Other shift.
Stepfather.
Beaten to death.
They interviewed the mother, but no one else in the household.
Doesn't exactly fit with the others, does it? A straight-up ass-whoopin' in an alley doesn't seem like Marlo Stanfield.
No, it doesn't.
But you're gonna work it anyway.
In the Pentecostal church where I was given religion, it would have been said the spirit was on you yesterday.
It got good to me.
Let praises be.
It pissed me off that on top of everything else I gotta deal with, some nutjob starts killing homeless guys.
Fuck already, how many shitbowls are there? He's right though.
You were great.
That passion was just the thing.
You think - We step out on this issue, it could provide some national presence Didn't the governor scrap the emergency medical and housing program last year? What was it, TEMHA? Replaced it with T-Dap, which cuts funding to anyone who doesn't qualify for federal support.
It's worse than that - he froze eligibility by disallowing new applications, which put all kinda folks out on the street.
So we slam the Republican for sticking it to the poor.
It plays.
Nationally, you're taking up the cause of the forgotten And no one is ever in favor of homelessness Statewide, you're going up against the fella who tore up the safety net.
Homelessness.
Huh.
I'll be damned.
Base to 2306.
Go ahead, Lester.
You see anybody using a cell phone? - Wait one.
Negative.
Hold on.
Somebody's here.
Lester? Can't get used to how empty this place feels nowadays.
True, but you'd be surprised what you can get done when no one's looking.
You'll need to serve these.
Running out of time.
I'll get right on it.
There's a couple of loose ends we should cover as well.
Now? - If not now, when? The trial date is coming up on us fast.
Right.
But it's, uh - Is it something I said? - No, it's Sydnor is bringing in a CI.
And if you're here Oh, shit.
I'm sorry I'll leave you my list, OK? No problem.
We'll get right on it.
I'm sorry, Lester, if I was intruding.
You couldn't know.
So why you here? If this about Michael and what he into, y'all should know he don't live here no more.
Actually, I'm following up on your man's case.
You spoke to Detective Worden when it happened.
Hm? He was your boyfriend, right? When he weren't in jail Father to my youngest.
But you know how he died.
Beaten bad.
Crime of passion, as we say.
Didn't seem like he was home long enough to get somebody that riled at him.
Unless, of course, it was over you.
You sayin' I know somethin' about that? Lady, let's put our cards on the table.
I been in this game longer than a little bit, and there's one thing I know.
A murder like this, there's a woman at the center of it.
I don't know nothin'.
You know, my gut tells me that you do.
And I'll tell you what We're gonna take a ride downtown, let you talk to the grand jury.
You're not straight with them, they'll give you a material witness warrant and you sit over at woman's detention for a couple of weeks.
It's amazing what it does for the grieving process.
Get your things.
I ain't goin' nowhere.
It's me or the wagon.
Detective, I swear, I ain't in this.
It ain't me you wanna talk to.
It's the boy, he know.
He runnin' with them who did it.
You just tryin' to put me off the scent.
You gotta believe me.
He told me Devar wasn't comin' home, 'fore we even knowed he was dead.
You said he's runnin' with them? Runnin' with who? Chris, Snoop, all them gangsters.
Who else doin' all the killin' around here? Let me see your camera.
Add a minute-six to your times.
Got it.
Here it is.
Look at this.
Single ring.
Connection.
Silence.
What do you have? I took these three.
They're just hangin' around.
What time did Monk leave? It's not what Marlo's sayin', it's what he's sendin'.
Look at Monk.
Yeah.
Text message.
Text? Need I remind you, Detective, these young men are products of Baltimore City schools.
Besides, look how far away he's holding his phone.
Too far away to be reading a text.
Nah, son.
Pictures.
Pictures What the fuck you lookin' at? You know what they do, right? They tease you, they they let you get close and just when you're about to pull the case, they rip the fuckin' rug out from under you.
I'm not lying.
We got a fuckin' serial killer on the loose.
You didn't know that? It's in the goddamn paper.
What support do I get? One fuckin' detective.
They wanna play their simple-ass games, fine.
But I gotta do what I gotta do.
Excuse me.
McNulty.
Yeah, Oscar.
Beautiful.
Absolutely.
Where? On my way.
Man, you can't let it get to you like this.
Why don't we go buy up a bunch of toys and take 'em to your kids? You ain't hearin' me.
How can I go near my people with Omar on us? How he gonna find out about them? How we find out about the blind man? Get.
It's Omar! Ah! You too, shorty.
Omar! It's Omar! Money a little late today.
That buckshot in your leg should help you explain yourself to Marlo.
As for them other two, they gonna wish I'd've peppered 'em a bit.
Now you make sure you tell old Marlo I burned the money.
Cos it ain't about that paper.
It's about me hurtin' his people and messin' with his world.
Tell that boy he ain't man enough to come down to the street with Omar.
You tell him that! My sergeant and two side partners got here before me.
Then the shift commander showed.
Now the duty officer is on his way.
For a DOA? Well, you and Lester started some shit here, son.
Now a DOA call brings everyone in a heartbeat.
God bless.
Pictures? - Photographs on cell phones.
Now that means new PC to capture the photos and new equipment that could do it.
How do I write that into my bullshit homeless killer's MO? When we started this, you said all we needed were some bugs, a camera or two, and in a couple of weeks, we'd have them.
That's what you said.
So I cranked up my bullshit to pay for that but no, then you needed a wiretap.
So I went along, I got you the wiretap.
Then you ask for surveillance teams, but before I can get to that, you came to me with this.
I mean, what the fuck? I gotta tell you, Lester, I don't want to hurt your feelings, but I can see why Daniels cringed every time you opened your fucking mouth.
You're a supervisor's nightmare.
I'm just following the thread.
Say we get you the intercept on your pictures, will that give us Marlo? It'll be coded, probably, but I'm sure we can break it.
That'll tell us how they do business, and usually, that's enough.
Or not.
But the truth is, I'm running Sydnor ragged just staying on a couple of mopes and monitoring calls.
Now, when we're up on their code, we're gonna need more manpower to run down a stash or a re-up.
We can't do it all.
I can't juke this thing any more than I have.
Last night, half the police department turned up at Oscar's crime scene before I could get there.
We can't make another murder.
Thanks for the milk.
What's a donut without milk? So you were talking about your second tour - The bad one.
Yeah.
Second tour fucked me up good.
But they don't wanna hear it.
Who doesn't? Mostly, it's command and the senior EM's.
They put it down that Marines don't get PTSD.
But they do.
Can you tell me what happened? Terry, can you talk about it? We had a month left on the tour, working an S-and-A mission outside Fallujah.
I was assistant team leader.
Our M-niner-niner-eights were retrofitted with up-armor kits.
M- niner-niner-eight? A Humvee.
Sorry.
They're big on nomenclature.
Anyway, we finished our sweep, headed back in, right? It was all good.
Then, bam.
Our lead vehicle was hit with an elevated IED.
The blast tore the M-50 gunner in half.
Flipped the Humvee like a Matchbox car.
Driver lost both his hands.
Blood shooting out all over.
He's fuckin' laughin'.
Saying over and over, "Look, Ma, no hands.
" It's the laughing I can't shake.
Weird.
Cos he's OK, you know? I mean, he's better than me.
Got himself a couple of prosthetic mitts, eighty thousand apiece.
Wow.
What happened next? Nothing really.
We pushed out, secured the perimeter.
Corpsman did what he could, an' we waited for the casevac.
I'm not looking to shit on another guy's copy, I just wanted you to know this was out there.
I'm at a community meeting in Bel Air-Edison to hear about school zoning and this woman talked my ear off about this.
She said the kids never saw a dime.
Hm.
I mean, I'm hoping this is all bullshit.
Hey, Scott.
How's it coming? - Pretty good.
You seen the art? Yeah.
Good stuff.
Listen, got a complaint about a story you wrote a couple weeks ago.
The woman who died from an allergic reaction to seafood.
Remember? - What about it? Lady knows the dead woman's sister says our story made a lot of money for those kids.
A scholarship fund we wrote up.
So? She says the sister has a history of fraud, convictions on it.
She says all the money went to Atlantic City casinos - and kids never saw a dime.
Christ, who the fuck I know.
It's probably some old biddy talkin' about stuff she don't know, but maybe you should go back and check with the family, see that we don't get took on this, huh? No, no.
Not now.
After you file.
Just make a couple calls, huh? - This is kidnapping.
Actually, I'm not sure.
I asked him if he wanted $100 to go someplace for dinner and talk - and he walked to my car.
You give him the hundred? Stuffed it in his jacket.
He's fine, Lester.
He's great.
Think he'll find his way back home? - Eventually.
By then, we'll be done with Marlo, we'll have shut this thing down.
As far as what happened to this guy They'll write it off as some fraternity prank.
Does he know we're cops? - No.
Even if he figures it out, who's gonna believe him? He's nuts.
How do you know he's nuts? - First of all, just look at him.
He's fucking bouncing off the walls.
Second of all I got his scrip.
I called the university ER.
It's an anti-psychotic.
So I took his ID, I'll scratch his name off the scrip and leave him with this I got that one from the first homeless death Oscar gave us.
The one that was too rigored.
Donald somebody or other.
It had him in a Cleveland, Ohio shelter.
McNulty, you are deserving of serious psychological study.
You need PC to intercept cell phone photos.
Well, here it is, right here.
We send photos of this guy all ribboned up from a dry cell phone to that goofy reporter, along with a message bitching about his stories.
"I ain't no pervert," or whatever.
Now, the killer says, you ain't gonna find no more bodies.
Only photos of the victims Before they disappear.
Look at this poor sucker.
I don't believe we're gonna do this.
He disappears, the city goes batshit.
You get your photo intercepts, and when we need to run down one of Marlo's re-ups, you got all the manpower you need.
And Marlo falls.
Falls hard.
Don't fucking tell me you mislabeled this, too.
I want comparisons between known suspects and the DNA from this scene.
By the looks of it, we got a whole lot of DNA outta this mess.
Now, motherfucker.
Right now.
Top of my list.
As soon as we work through all the trace from the homeless killings.
That's the priority, Bunk.
The homeless killings.
Everything is backed up behind that, sorry.
Your boy McNulty has everyone's attention right now.
Uh So it's Larry, huh? OK, Larry.
You're with good people here.
It's all gonna be great.
You're gonna like this place.
It's warm, they got nice beds.
And best of all, I gave you cash money just for walking in the door.
Come on, Larry.
It's gonna be fine.
I promise.
You feel up for trying Clay yourself? I mean, it's been a while since you tried a criminal case personally.
It sends a statement, I think.
We should start with our witness list.
See if we can pare that down any, out of respect for the distracted nature of a Baltimore jury.
First, there's something else I need to bring up.
Old grand jury stuff? - Sealed indictments.
Sealed transcripts.
Dozens of them.
Pulled from the desk of a shot-to-death drug dealer in East Baltimore.
The deputy ops brought me those.
We have a leak.
And he showed up, outside where I work.
He was confused.
Lost, I think.
So I brought him here.
Donald, where you from? Tell the lady, Donald.
Baltimore.
But he told me he came from Cleveland.
Donald, do you have identification? This does say Cleveland.
Donald, why don't we get you something to eat? It's OK.
Come on.
We're good to go? - It's great, Gus.
It sings.
Hey, Scotty boy.
Hey.
Hey.
Great piece.
I mean, this one really feels like the real deal.
It's great work.
Thanks.
What I like most about it is that you didn't overwrite it.
No extra color.
No puffy adjectives.
Just tight, declarative sentences.
You really let this ex-marine tell his story.
Thanks, Gus.
Hey, Mr.
Slot man, read it and weep.
And I mean that literally.
Oh, Scott.
Did you get a chance to drop a couple calls on that complaint? It's bullshit.
I talked to people in the neighborhood.
Sister's good people, but there's another woman up there, unrelated, keeps getting arrested for kiting checks and stuff.
She uses the sister's name every time she gets locked up.
She's done it like three or four times now.
No shit.
Yeah, it's crazy.
But sister's clean.
Everyone says so.
OK.
Is there anything else I can do for him? No, we've got it.
But thanks for bringing him in.
Most people, they just ignore them.
I just want to get your paperwork taken care of.

Now they're online.
This is masked as Marlo's cell number? How the fuck? How? Spoofed to imitate a call stream like it's a phone-company switch.
We can put any digits in we want.
Meanwhile, phone company paperwork on the case has the cell we gave to Sydnor.
It's fairly basic shit.
Now, stick to the script.
We don't want any tell-tales.
Even with the voice modulator, you're exposed here.
Seven-Baker-14.
BGA.
Go ahead, 14.
blocking an entrance.
400 Pressman.
What the Shit.
Templeton.
Hey, you Where do you get off, you sick little twist? Sexual? I'm not sexual with them, I'm not abusive with them.
How dare you write that in your paper without knowing nothing about me? - What? - Biting's not sex, it's biting.
I'm not sick like that.
Hang on, hang on, hang on.
Maybe I should come bite you.
Would you like that, Scotty? I bet you would like that.
Am I right? You write about me like I'm sick.
You're the sick one, you know that? Is that why you like me, Scotty? Is that why? Fuck me.
Yeah, this is Holley, Baltimore Homicide.
I need a trap-and-trace on case 08H114.
Cellphone is in use right now.
I could come bite you, you tell me how sexual it is.
OK, hang on.
Who Where are you? Here's what's happening now.
You humiliate me like that? You mortify me like that in front of my father? My father's father? Listen to me, smack daddy, crack daddy, little baby whack daddy, here's what's happening.
You ain't never gonna find them anymore.
You ain't never gonna see them no more.
I'm sending you something right now.
You take a good look at this guy, because you ain't never going to see him no more.
Hey, OK.
Don't hang up.
Can we Oh, shit.
Did you get McNulty? - Just his voicemail.
Oh, Christ.
That was That was him.
Again! Nice Bawlmer accent.
It's my heritage.
has traced the phone in question to Pier Five on Pratt Street.
All units respond to that 20 and detain anyone present pending the arrival of a duty officer.
One-Baker-Ten, copy that.
I'm rolling.
One-Baker-13, I'm almost there.
KGA to all units.
Be advised that we're looking for a 10-30 individual on a cellphone.
Anyone on a phone? - Not that I saw.
Just people moving through, it could be anybody.
Let's just fan out and take names.
Go down this road.
Get their names over there.
Get everybody up in this area now.
Stop.
What the hell is this? - Hey, let go of me.
Get on the ground now.
Get your hands up! Step out! Get everybody over there and get their cellphones.
Everyone take out your cellphones and place them on the table in front of you.
Stop, he didn't do anything.
What are you doing? Foxtrot to KGA, I'm your eyeball.
Sarge, we got him.
Bullshit.
I got him on tape.
The goof actually called.
Yeah, yeah, it was sweet.
Hey, what'd I miss? He went off on a tangent.
Said he wanted to bite me.
What? Bite you how? Scott, are you saying that he threatened to Wait a minute.
Hold on a second.
Holy Christ.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole - So are we partners or what? - No, Clay.
I don't pick so much as a single juror without the full amount of my fee being paid.
If you want Billy Murphy on your case, you got to pay to put him there.
I got a taste for you right up front.
A good, five-figure taste.
But you asking for me to pay a winner's fee right up front, and you know what? I ain't a winner yet.
Right now, with the sword hanging over my head, I don't have the kind of financial support at my disposal that I would ordinarily be able to rely upon, you feel? So the money boys are laying off, huh? They thinkin' short when they should be thinkin' long.
Shameful shit.
I don't work that way.
I know you don't, partner, I know you don't.
And normally I wouldn't dream of asking you to suit up for game day with my tab as it is.
from under this mess.
And, Clay, don't fuck me.
Don't even think about fucking me out of a single part of that fee.
Oh, Billy, you talk as if you don't know me.
I'm disappointed.
I am.
My brother, let's be fair.
I'm providing you with the opportunity to go head-to-head with the state's attorney in a case that's gonna be front-page news.
For all that profile? Shit, partner, you should be payin' me a fee.
Seriously, dawg, for 20,000 cash to my campaign committee, I'll get myself indicted federal, let you go to trial on that.
Beat the feds like a stepchild, an' really make a name for yourself.
Fuck you? Naw, son, I'm gonna make you.
Motherfuckers gonna be wipin' they ass with Johnnie Cochran's memory and carryin' your business card in every damn pocket before we done.
No.
I already got more rep than any lawyer would ever need.
Why don't you save that silver-tongued bullshit for the jury? Right.
No, nothing since.
All right.
Me, Barlow and Kincaid been sittin' here like the fucking Maytag repairmen, growing piles.
Nothing, not a call.
Then, bang.
No luck at the harbor.
We were tracking the GPS then it just goes dead.
Area of Pier Five.
Where's McNulty? - Over at the newspaper.
Let's hear that motherfucker again.
Hey, you, where do you get off, you sick little twist? Sounds like some gearhead from Dundalk.
And emotionally, how was he? - He sounded pissed.
At you, personally? Like I told you, he said I humiliated him by writing that the biting was sexual.
At the end, he offered to come here and bite me.
I didn't really respond to that.
OK.
Did he sound like the same guy? - What do you mean? Did it sound like the voice you heard on the first call? Oh, right.
Yeah.
No, actually.
Well, yeah.
I mean, yeah.
It was the same, but this time I noticed he had a real thick Baltimore accent.
Real thick.
You didn't notice that the first time, huh? I guess I did but I forgot.
Did I screw up in any way? - No.
Not at all.
Listen, we reserve the right to make this decision but that said, would running these photos in any way impair the investigation? I don't think so.
Fact is, we need as many eyes as we can looking for this homeless guy.
You don't know where this guy is? He could be - Could already be a victim, sure.
Jesus.
That's Charles and Conway.
I wonder if he's a regular out there.
He had to have used a different phone.
Had to have been a cellphone if he sent you these.
That's true.
But, uh, again, you can't print anything about where he's calling from.
We're trying to get up on that cellphone.
What should I do if he calls again? Keep him on the line as long as you can.
Don't spook him.
Guy likes to rant.
Let him do his thing.
You OK? - Me? Yeah, I guess.
I wouldn't worry.
He's just using you.
He needs you.
I kind of resent that, actually.
Oh, I dunno.
It's workin' out pretty well for both of you, right? Gentlemen, thanks for these.
Callin' Vincent on his cell all morning, he still ain't answer.
Ain't got time for this.
Re-up time will come due, we still ain't picked up the mannitol.
What the fuck? Yo, Vincent.
Where you at? Manny? Manny? Shit.
Shit.
Omar! - Why you still alive, then? He say tell Marlo he out in the streets, waitin'.
Say this whole damn city gonna know Marlo ain't man enough to come down in the streets.
He get the stash? - Yo, Cherry, he blew Manny up as soon as he got inside.
He was gonna do me, too.
How the fuck he get inside? Manny open up to go on the food run, and this dicksucker was right there.
He knew we was the stash.
Ain't need to be told shit.
He just knew.
Four K of raw, flushed.
Hey, yo, Cherry.
You gonna untie me, right? Come on, nigger, untie me.
Seriously, Steven.
If you can't afford it, that's fine, I understand.
If you think this clown is gonna hold me off and keep the statehouse, I know you've got to hedge your bets given how much you're waiting on from Annapolis.
But if you're gonna choose a side, do it early.
That's all I'm saying.
I hear ya, Tom.
I'm going to write out a check today, and send it out the door.
That's great, Steven.
Really, I do appreciate it.
Can you, um Can I ask you to consider I'll double down on that for my wife, too.
For your wife, too? That's just great, really.
Yeah, thanks for going the extra mile on this.
No problem.
Photographs? He messaged digital photos of the possible victim to the Sun reporter.
I canvassed this guy's regular corner, he has indeed been missing a couple of days.
We got these photos from the newspaper but we want to be able to intercept any future images.
Hence the amended order.
Correct.
Can we catch photos with our city equipment? Actually, no.
We're still bumping around in the 20th century.
But Howard County has the right software on a couple of their computers.
You need two? Umyeah, in case one goes down, we got the other one as backup.
We don't wanna miss our shot at this nut.
Well, good hunting.
Thank you, Judge.
Oh, Ronnie.
You briefed your boss? And he's calling the mayor, right? And Rawls, too, I imagine.
Pretty little fella, gets himself elected on a law-and-order ticket.
Crime doesn't go down much, and a couple weeks before he starts gearing up to announce for governor, some wingnut starts killing people, taking photographs, sending 'em to the newspaper.
You know something? You may wanna check the governor's alibi.
You know? Oh thanks.
Couldn't make 30? I'm gonna tell you something.
A lot of people want Tommy Carcetti to be their fuckin' governor.
And I can't imagine what they're thinking.
It is a new record.
The motherfucker killing homeless guys? He grabbed one off the street, wrapped a ribbon on his wrist, sent a photo to the Baltimore Sun, - saying we won't find the body.
He what? The newspaper's gonna run the photos.
Bill Rawls.
I need him on the line now.
You rascal, you I'll be glad when you're dead, you rascal, you Ahh Look at you, you baby-bumpin' motherfucker.
Look at you.
Let's go.
Deputy wants as much of my squad as I can wrangle upstairs right now.
We're going large Richard on McNulty's serial killer.
I'm working my cases.
Bunk, command performance.
The deputy wants bodies.
The mayor's spewing over this thing.
I'm not going.
What? You don't see those on my sleeve? - Plain as fuckin' day, Bunk.
I'm doing police work here.
In fact, I have a fresh angle on last year's major case, on which I'm the sole remaining investigator.
So fuck your stripes and fuck McNulty and fuck your big-dick red ball.
If you can't work with that, just write me the fuck up, and ship my ass to a trial board.
So, Alma stays with the investigation and detectives downtown.
Don't go home without checking for updates before the e-dot and double-dot editions.
So the case file is McNulty with the rest of his squad as immediate support.
Lieutenant D'Addario's shift will man the wiretap.
In addition to Alma and Scott, Olesker will have a column coming.
Fletcher, I want you on homeless react, also interviews with advocates and experts.
Melody, you get on the phone with the whitecoats at Clifton T Perkins or wherever, work up a sidebar on what it means when a whackjob kills somebody and talks to reporters about it.
Greggs, I've been scanning the casework.
While there have been numerous field interviews and canvasses, we haven't done much with background work on victims and families.
If you could take charge of that.
Colonel Tomlin, we'll need Tactical to provide surveillance cars and undercover decoys where the homeless gather.
We need to be in the street, proactive.
This case is as much about preventing another abduction or murder as it is about making an arrest.
We can't work this one with the phone.
We need to be in the street, at eye level.
We need to keep the media as part of the equation.
This reporter that's been contacted, he's in the middle of it.
That may be a way to solve this thing.
You're in the middle of this now, so while we're presenting this as a first-person piece on your latest contact with the killer, Alma's going to interview you for the mainbar.
McNulty's preliminary checks with shelter workers and a canvass of Conway and Charles, indicates that our victim is indeed missing, but when we get a full ID, we need to run every connection to make sure this isn't a hoax.
Chief, we need to pull bodies from District Ops to give Homicide their own surveillance arm.
And having had some experience in the politics of staffing, I leave it to McNulty to pick the people.
For once, people, I am assured that the resources we need to work this story will be there for us.
So let's surround this mess and report the hell out of it.
This one's got legs.
I'm now told, by the mayor directly, that there will be no overtime restrictions, no staffing limits on this case.
So put this case down.
Police work.
What do you know? Good day.
Six G-packs so far.
New package be droppin' them fiends.
Yeah.
Probably need one more re-up.
Rare day on the corner, huh? - Step off, nigger.
Hey, Mike, check this out.
"Certified hydrotherapist, "experience with geriatric patients, Sinai Hospital outpatient clinic.
" - Jerry who? - Whatever, how about this - "Dental front desk, high-quality dental office seeks front desk.
" - Like furniture? - Like a secretary, I guess.
Man, you ain't even ever been to no dentist.
"HVAC maintenance supervisor.
" - What the fuck is a huhvac? - "H-V-A-C.
" Maybe they spelled it bad.
"Systems manager in a deadline-driven environment.
" Man, ain't nothing there.
Even if there was, you ain't 16, and y'all got to pick up Bug after three.
Hey, hang on, hang on.
"Exotic dancer, downtown financial district lunchtime hours.
"Must be flexible in body and mind.
" Now we talking.
Hey, make it rain on 'em.
Make it rain.
Hold up.
Time out.
Fuck did I do? - If we don't know, then you do.
This is bullshit.
Yo, don't forget about Bug.
As this is an ongoing investigation, I'll ask that you direct questions to the police officials best equipped to answer.
These new developments in the case of the homeless slayings in our city are troubling and tragic and unacceptable.
We are doing everything possible to locate and identify the individual depicted in the photographs sent to the Baltimore Sun today.
We are endeavoring to protect other homeless citizens, and we are pursuing the suspect with every means at our disposal.
I have made clear to my police commanders that they have my full confidence and the authority to employ whatever resources they require.
And let me be unequivocal.
This man will be brought to justice.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mayor, Mr.
Mayor! Voice and digital photos.
He calls again, you'll capture either one.
I can do these background checks myself, Jay You heard the deputy.
He specifically assigned Greggs.
Greggs has an open triple.
And this squad has your serial killer.
The case is shit-hot.
Jay, I don't need - You are the point man on the motherfucker who's missing.
You don't have time to work on the older cases.
It goes to Greggs, end of fucking story.
Nowwhat else do you need? I'm gonna need those surveillance teams as this thing sprawls.
For now, let me pull this guy's ID as fast as I can.
Figure what he's about.
After that, I'll have more to spin off.
Voice analysis of the call? Shit, I don't believe in that shit.
Next thing I know, you'll want me to go to Quantico with this fucking thing.
As a matter of fact You don't believe in behavioral forensics, Dr.
Moreland? I don't believe in much of anything at this point.
It doesn't fucking matter what any of us believe at this point.
You turned on the fuckin' tap, Jimmy.
They're finally paying for police work again.
Proud of yourselves? We're close to Marlo.
A week or two at most.
How does it feel getting Greggs pulled off her triple? How does it feel knowing that you got surveillance teams out there and District units, and Tactical, all of 'em chasin' bullshit? We're gonna use the surveillance teams.
They'll help us bring in the case.
I don't even want to know whose picture you got running in the paper or where that motherfucker actually happens to be Names and addresses, whatever you got.
Jimmy - Don't kill yourself.
Shit.
Don't worry, son.
I got you covered on all this.
Listen, one other thing.
I, uh, I'm getting my kid for an overnight.
Where do I get kids' furniture? - Ikea.
Oh.
See y'all.
Shame on y'all.
I mean it.
Trace lab.
It's Moreland.
You just called.
I know, and I'm callin' again.
I need the trace work on 06H271, and I need it now.
I know, he hasn't been around to it yet.
Tell him I called and tell him I'm gonna keep calling till he feels my fucking pain, all right? Gift-wrapped.
Number one.
Fuck.
How the fuck do they expect me to get this shit done on my own? Broke-ass department ain't even payin'.
You OK? It's fucked up.
It's all fucked up, OK? I could make a red go to black 'cept for these cheap motherfuckers.
What do you got? Good snitch put the finger on an eyeball wit been duckin' me.
He lays up at this one girl's place at Athol Avenue, right? - Comes in late, but he leaves early.
So? So I don't mind sittin' on the place all night long an' not get paid.
But it's a garden apartment.
Parking lots on both sides and if he decides to park on the street and walk across the grass, he still has the fucking patio doors.
Two more men do it? Yeah, and two more cars, yeah.
I got more bodies than I can use on my serial thing.
Let me make a call, hook you up with two Tac guys.
You tell 'em you're sitting on a 20 that I gave you.
I'll write up the hours under my file.
And you can do that? Go with God.
Can you make out who that is? Yeah.
Look at you.
Not even blinking.
Not that I blame you after what this heinous motherfucker did to you.
Still, this right here is vicious.
I mean, whoever did this had a real time.
Now you know what I'm saying? Now, I know it wasn't you, because, with all due respect, you don't have the physicality to do this kind of damage.
I mean, whoever did this had to be a full-grown and powerful individual - a fearsome individual.
You see what I'm sayin'? You the murder police.
How the fuck would I know? - Is this spot good for a stand-up? - Let's go with a wide shot on this.
Goddamn Pulitzers.
Kinda formula, I know.
Anecdotal lead, nut graf, best quote.
It works as a sidebar but, for tomorrow, let's stretch it some, huh? Really spend some time with some of these people, you know? What I mean is, sometimes, the weakest stuff in a story is the shit with quotation marks around it.
You got a guy telling how rough it is on the street, it really doesn't have much pull.
But if you can describe him as he really is, tell his story in moments Look, tomorrow, get back in the shelters and the soup kitchens and just be with folk.
I don't care if you file copy on it.
If something presents itself as a story, great, but if not, just spend the day being with people.
I'm not interested in what can be quoted or counted on this.
I'm interested in what feels true.
I'm in - 30 inches, with room for Price's stuff from the hall.
Scott? - Five minutes.
We're coming up on first edition.
Three minutes.
We had him in that, uh, what do you call it, - rehabilitation.
Four times.
We're not rich people.
Henry's on disability.
We get him out, he makes all kinds of promises but, well, you know? I'm sorry.
The last time, we decided we wouldn't be there for him.
We knew he'd probably die out there, if the drugs get him, we knew that.
But this thing in the newspaper, this sex stuff, the biting or whatever Jesus, nobody deserves that.
You see what I have a problem with, right? The first-person is one thing.
I know he needs to put himself in the story It's essential.
But this business about him being out there day and night with the homeless, I mean, this stuff about sharing their "darkest corners with them," He's writing more as an essayist.
We've got a column from Olesker, front metro.
I mean, it's pretty powerful without being purple.
But this stuff that Scott's written, it makes it sound like he's been living with the homeless for weeks.
He spends one night under the JFX, another half-day quoting people in a homeless shelter.
It ain't exactly Studs Terkel.
You don't think the piece should run as it is? I mean, we have him interviewed about the call from the killer in Alma's mainbar, we have his quotes but the rest of this stuff, he's acting like he's taking his life in his hands, he walks another highway at night? I mean, this is our fucking city.
This ain't Beirut.
I respect your concerns.
I'll take the piece and move it as my own edit.
How's that? OK.
And while they declined to talk on camera, the parents of Jonathan Boland say they are hopeful that the renewed attention to their son's death a few years ago will lead police to his killer.
For Channel Six News, I'm Cass Media's going crazy.
City Hall, too.
But for once, we're getting what we need to do the job.
How does it feel? - Forbidden.
I feel like they're gonna find out how much we're spending and shut us down.
You don't have all this in your head yet? I just want to go over it all again.
We finish voir dire by lunch and then it's opening arguments.
For Mr.
Bond.
It's on him.
He needs a strong second.
He needs me to know this case inside and out.
How much longer, Lester? If Marlo has a code, we can break the code.
That's a given.
How long? Depends on the code, doesn't it? Quicker we bring this in and shut it down, the safer we'll all be.
Landsman wants me to go to fucking Quantico, let the FBI do a profile.
Might learn something about yourself.
It's not funny, Lester.
This shit's bigger than I ever thought it would be.
The whole fuckin' city Yeah, Jay.
No.
No, I don't need an academy class to help with a canvass near this guy's corners.
Well, I don't need any additional canvassing.
What? You wanna know why? I'll tell you why.
Because I already know the name of the missing smokehound.
Yeah, his name, his DOB and his last known address at a city shelter.
Lawrence Butler, 3/10/1951, South Baltimore Men's Shelter.
How? Police work.
When I have more leads, Sergeant, I'll be able to use the extra manpower you give me and run this shit down.
But until then, will you back off, Jay? Yeah, just back the fuck off.
Trouble with making this thing into a red ball? People start to treat it like a fucking red ball.
Jesus! Get me out of this, Lester, as fast as you can.
Senator! Senator, there have been rumors of a last-minute plea offer.
How can I plead to what I didn't do? What are you reading there, Senator? This here? Prometheus Bound, an ancient play, one of the oldest we have, about a simple man who was horrifically punished by the powers that be for the terrible crime of trying to bring light to the common people.
In the words of Aeschylus, "No good deed goes unpunished.
" I cannot tell you how much consolation I find in these slim pages.
One more question, Senator - Ladies and gentlemen, I do believe I have my day in court and I will see you inside.
City Hall wants an update.
What do we know about our missing mope? What else? Sending a tape of the call down to Quantico, along with the case file.
They'll review, then meet with us.
You gotta hit every downtown shelter or mission there is.
You want bodies for that? - I'm taking Christeson.
The rookie? - Yeah, he'll ask the extra question.
He's hungry.
He's If I need more bodies, I'll let you know.
Heard what you did with Christeson, letting him go on his own case, while you carry him and two surveillance teams.
Your shit is right, Jimmy.
Thanks.
So I got another one for ya.
You remember the rape-murder I had? Bolton Hill job? Brother-in-law of my rapist, last year wouldn't talk to me, but now, his wife just got collared, and if she gets locked up, his kids go to family services, so he's desperate to deal.
The problem is, he's in the New York system - Elmira, Newburgh, one of those places.
Anyway, I get a road car and expenses, I can put it down.
Jimmy, he strangled a 20-year-old, stuffed her under her bed.
OK, give my CC to motor pool.
I'll bury the expenses and the OT in my file.
Thanks, brother.
Ain't you the little king of diamonds? Homicide.
Nah, he's on the street right now.
Call back in a couple of hours.
On second thought, gonna have Norris with me on that canvass today, boss.
And with every single transaction you've described, Detective, the money was routed through the senator's personal account - and then withdrawn as cash.
Yes, sir.
Often in the same amounts? - Often the exact amounts, sometimes slightly smaller amounts but always within a day of the initial deposit.
Thank you, Detective Freamon.
Your Honor, no further questions.
Cross-examination, Mr.
Murphy.
No questions, your Honor.
You got a number? - What? Number on a slip.
If you get a number, I might could find you a seat.
It's mac an' cheese today.
No, I'm a newspaper reporter.
So you got what to eat, then.
Yeah, came down here just to hang out and get with some homeless people.
How come whenever y'all be wanting homeless, y'all come to the soup kitchens? - You don't serve homeless? - Serve everybody.
Homeless, poor folks, workin' people tryin' to make it to a paycheck.
Shit, half the neighborhood be up here the week before check day.
Hey, you're not Homeless? No, I'm down in my sister's, uh, basement, over at Edmondson Village.
What you need the homeless to say? Talk about the killings.
The thing going on with the serial killer.
But mostly, I'm just lookin' for a story about what it's like for them.
What life is like.
Hard times out here.
I can't imagine.
And you gonna write a story about what life's like, huh? - Bubbles, man.
Mike Fletcher.
Sticking for the moment with the West Baltimore Hoops charity, what were your basic responsibilities there? I can't rightly say.
Yet you drew $40,000 a year as the executive director.
No.
All that money went straight back to Senator Davis.
Ah! What, none for you? I got paid through the district office for drivin' him.
That money I kept.
An' whenever I would go out to snatch some money - for the senator - Objection.
he'd sometimes kick me back a few.
Move to strike all of that.
Sustained.
Disregard that last comment.
This case is limited to the charges stemming from the operation of Senator Davis's non-profit charities.
Other matters are not relevant.
Here it is.
What the hell is that? A meet at 5:50? - I'm gonna go get up on Monk.
Mm-hm.
You have a criminal history, do you not, Mr.
Price? Yeah, I did some years.
And when you last got out of prison six years ago, was Senator Davis aware of your criminal record? Yes, sir.
And yet he gave you a job but today, is this how you repay him? The testimony you gave about returning the money you earned at the senator's charities, you say you repaid it to the senator in cash, correct? - Every time.
So there's no proof that the senator ever received that money.
Isn't that correct? - I guess not.
You guess not.
I guess not.
Mr.
Price, you acknowledged earlier that in exchange for your testimony, you received immunity from prosecution for any charges related to this case.
Is it fair to say that testifying against Senator Davis ensures that you will not yourself go to jail? - Goddamn right.
Mr.
Price.
I'm s Oh, shit, sorry.
Mr.
Price.
OK, my B, Judge.
Sorry.
Mr.
Price, do you expect this jury to take the word of a twice-convicted felon over the word of a duly elected member of the Maryland state senate? What can I say? Y'all can play it like you feel an' leave me be.
Yeah? - Yeah.
I don't get it.
He hasn't moved off this spot for an hour and a half.
All right, well, come on back, then, all right? Guy's been hitting the bus shelters every third or fourth night.
We got two wounded and one dead going back to that piece since December.
All I'm asking is for hours to stake this asshole out.
Guy's like clockwork.
Spot me an' Garvey three nights, and the case is fucking down.
I can give you two nights.
And if he hits on the third? - One night.
OK, OK.
Two nights.
You need to put my CC number on the OT slips - and you give those to Jay - It's cool.
I know the drill.
You do? - You're doing good here, boss.
What did you just call me? - What the hell is that? - Office reports.
Families of your victims, debriefed in full.
And believe me, it ruined my week.
Rough, huh? - I'm sittin' there explaining to the salt of the fuckin' earth why their eldest, who is living on the street because nothing they did could fix his problems, but God knows they tried, why he met his end being bit on and fucked with by some sick motherfucker who used him for jerk-off purposes.
How the shit about the bite marks get in the papers in the first place? Gotta run.
I got shit to assemble.
You didn't tell me that part of it, did you, motherfucker? I got one at the corner of Calhoun and Mosher.
Jesus that poor guy Wanna take him home with you? - I mean, shit, take me.
What? Just having fun with you, man.
Thanks for bringing me here, man, showing me around.
Nah.
Not about that.
Sure? Justwrite it like it feels.
Fuck.
Shit! Rodney, you can't press a regular for his whole tab.
It just isn't done.
I used to run a bar.
I know how these things work, remember? - Gus Haynes in the flesh.
Well, more of it, maybe.
How you been? Where you been hidin'? You in Vice still? Vice? Shit, that does take me back.
I did eight years in Homicide, brother.
Now it's the Western.
Speaking of hiding out, when did you stop comin' round? Last I saw you was I'm not running the districts anymore.
I'm an editor now, so Then you can afford to buy a round.
Hey, Dennis.
Let me pull your coat.
Long time, Gus.
Don't tell me you knew I'd be here tonight.
It's a cop bar, you know, so, if it's not you, it's some other face from back in the day.
Theoretical question.
Theoretical? In that case, a double, Rodney - Gus is buyin'.
Two, Rodney.
So What? I seen you at the stash house, yo.
Ain't you used to be with them Barksdale boys? - What they call you, yo? - Savino.
Yeah, that's right.
Savino.
You ain't never move no dope.
You was always muscle as I recall.
Now you musclin' for Marlo, huh? I wasn't there.
When they did the old man like that, I wasn't there.
Chris an' Snoop, they on that.
I know who was there.
So you innocent, huh? Let me ask you somethin' though, bein' that you muscle for Marlo.
What you was gonna do if you was there, huh? Riddle me that.
Yeah.
You know what, yo? Ready? Yeah.
A'ight.
Yeah? - We gotta talk.
I'll come over to you.
Hm.
Does that seem possible? To go through the court system with a false ID? Maybe the first time, if she's got no priors, no prints on file, but after that? BPI sheets have fingerprint characteristics that are like an FBI bar code.
And it's paired with a photo.
A name's one thing, but unless these women are twin sisters and one's been carrying the other one's hand around in her purse for the last 12 years Somebody's yanking your chain.
It's definitely a code.
Definitely not having much to do with time.
We're at a point where I'm going to need more bodies, surveillance cars, man-hours.
We're gonna have to stay on these guys till those clocks start to make sense.
Good news is they're giving me more manpower than they can waste.
Bad news? - It's all around the office that I'm giving out hours and money to people to work other cases.
I can't help it, Lester.
It's the kind of person I am.
I give and give.
If you're not careful, you're gonna get shit on you, on us.
Who's gonna complain? Guys are working cases and getting paid.
So what exactly do you need? Seven men.
No, eight.
And cars.
Oh, shit they offered me men from the districts, and a surveillance supervisor to run the detail.
Anyone in the districts we trust? Huhlet me think on that.
Yeah? I don't know how the fuck did you of all people do this shit, huh? How? - You got the right Allen wrench? - Goddamn directions.
What kind of Scotch are you using? Ah, fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Piece of shit! Yo, so you talked to Chris, right? What he say? He didn't say shit.
He knows I ain't say a fuckin' word to no police.
And you heard what Little Dermell said to the juvenile master? Lady ax him like, "Yo, you got a record?" He's like "Yeah, bitch, I got a record.
"My record's so long I'm about to put out an album.
" Uh-uh, uh-uh don't touch that dial, young 'un.
This a Stanfield corner, huh? Huh? You know who I am? You make sure you tell the boss man that you know who it is dropped Savino last night.
You feel me? You tell that man I'm-a drop all his muscle until he get the heart to come down to the street and dance.
You gonna remember all that, sweet pea? - That's Omar? Damn.
Savino dead, yo? Shit, man, if he woulda made me from Monk's apartment the other night, I might be laid out my own self.
Gimpy as a motherfucker.
I don't know, Senator.
I want to believe you.
I mean, I'm your lawyer.
But there's all this up on the board that Mr.
Bond has on display - next day, $11,000 drawn.
Then $11,000 deposited in your personal banking account.
You bet it all went into my account.
It made it easier for me to do my job.
And at the end of the day, not one penny stayed with me.
I need you to do better than that, Senator.
Where are your records? - Records? Yes, records.
For example, this check for $11,000 dated January 22nd.
That was last winter, right? So, some went to pay everyone's BGE, 'cause half my district was gonna have the heat turned off and then, some went for puffjackets for them that got children in need.
Let me tell you something, man.
My neck of the woods, it's a jungle out there.
Everybody living hand to mouth, improvising, hustlin', make do with as little as you can imagine.
Hell, that TV show, what the Survivor? Man, they want some good contestants, they need to come around West Side.
Folks I know? We'd do great on that show.
Practice every damn day of our lives.
Hell, and Fear Factor? Aw, shit.
Don't even get me started.
Forgive me, but I still don't understand how that justifies Let me tell you something, brother - I don't know how they do it out in Roland Park.
Maybe Prosecutor Obonda can enlighten me on that.
But my world is strictly cash-and-carry, and I am Clay Davis - my people need something, they know where to find me.
Let me tell you, brother, I step out the door, hit the corner of Mosher and Pennsylvania, you better believe my pockets are bulging.
But by the time I get to Robert Street Objection! Objection, your Honor.
Senator! Senator, take a seat and refrain from off-hand references to Mr.
Bond.
My apologies, your Honor.
But these charities were set up for basketball leagues in city rec centers, weren't they? Yeah, but you give me 20,000 for a basketball and an air pump, I am pullin' goodly on that for whatever, whoever comes at me.
"Senator Clay, I gots to bury my mother, "bail out my son, "buy a new shirt for a job interview, "pay my child's asthma doctor.
" Takes me half an hour to go a hundred yards and excuse me if I didn't ask that old arthritis woman for a receipt, or that young mother needed the Similac to sign a damn piece of paper so I don't have to be up here in this box right now explainin' to folks who never been in our neck of the woods how things truly are.
And if a jury of my peers, you all, deem it right and true for me to walk out of here an upright and justified man? I ain't gonna lie to you.
I'm gonna do the same damn thing tomorrow, and the day after that and the day after that, until they got me laid out at March's Funeral Home, and truck me off to Mount Auburn.
Silence.
Silence in this courtroom.
What about trailers? Like FEMA.
We set up trailers to act as temp housing for some of the some of the shelter population.
Put 'em down in War Memorial Plaza.
Do you know how much FEMA pays per trailer? A dozen trailers for the homeless, we've got 3-4,000 on the streets, at least.
It's symbolic.
You know, we're doing what we can with a civic disaster - like New Orleans.
Abandoned by the state, ignored by the federal government.
It's bad enough you want to keep the city shelters open 24/7.
That puts the health department a couple of hundred thousand in the red.
Add that to the overage for letting the police department run wild - with overtime and investigative costs - There's no choice anymore.
This thing has a lock on everyone's attention.
When another victim disappears, we're gonna be even more on the spot.
I'm just telling you, if this goes on more than a month, with what we'll be spending, you're looking at cutbacks throughout the agencies, maybe even teacher layoffs come the end of the fiscal.
Teacher layoffs? - By a gubernatorial candidate.
In an election year.
Lovely.
Hold up, hold up, hold up! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! I just want to say that despite all the false accusations made against me, the people who I continue to serve have spoken.
What the fuck just happened? as long as I can to serve the people.
Whatever it was, they don't teach it in law school.
playing not just the race card but the whole deck, coming at ya.
Got it.
Thank you.
Someday you're going to have to explain all this to me, Gus.
After watching that verdict come in, I feel very white.
Well, start with some James Brown records and work up from there.
It's embarrassing, ain't it? I can't believe nobody had sense enough to tone this down.
The hype is bad enough, but what gets me is that I can't trust the guy.
I send him back out on the street to own his mistake, he comes back with some bullshit about stolen identities.
I don't give a fuck he gets took.
Everybody gets took now and then.
I know I did.
It's about not owning up to it.
Gus, this thing with the woman and the crab cake? You think the first time you catch him is the first time he does it? A lot of guys'll try to duck a correction but he was standing on an outright lie, and if he'll lie about a correction Then will he lie to make a story better than it ought to be? I keep thinking about that kid in the wheelchair out in front of Oriole Park.
The one that only had a nickname.
A black kid from the West Side, crazy for baseball? Basketball, yeah.
Football, sure.
I don't wanna call another reporter a liar.
I really don't.
What's the matter, baby? You can't sleep? Let's see.
Let's say good night to everybody.
Good night, moon.
You say it.
Good night, moon.
There you go.
Good night, stars.
Good night, stars.
Good night, po-pos.
Good night, po-pos.
Good night, fiends.
Good night, fiends.
Good night, hoppers.
Good night, hoppers.
Good night, hustlers.
Good night, hustlers.
Good night, scammers.
Good night, scammers.
Good night to everybody.
Good night to everybody.
Good night to one and all.
Good night to one and all.

And as you can see from the locations, the killer is working primarily in the Southern, Central and Southeastern.
Makes sense, given the concentrations of homeless in those districts.
Vics one and three were killed at night, two and four had daylight TODs.
Detective, what about the missing man, Mr.
Butler? Is there any lead at all on his whereabouts? No, sir.
We we have teletypes with every police agency in the mid-Atlantic, we're also running daily morgue checks in ten states and the district, - but nothing yet.
Where are we on a profile? I've arranged for our people to travel to Quantico today.
The bureau's been very accommodating.
This is a strange one.
I've heard of people going after street people, but it's usually adolescent sadism.
This sexual thing - It is different.
We put it out on ViCAP, and we have no hits anywhere else in the country.
I mean, I'm all for a little kinky shit now and then, but chewing on a homeless fella? You seem to be well grounded in the case file.
What else do you need? Well, we've developed a rough list of those adult males who were briefly detained by police near pier five soon after the suspect made his last call.
We'd like to put some under surveillance.
They're not suspects but we would consider them persons of interest.
We've also developed a rough list of known adult white homosexual sex offenders in these three districts.
And, as we cull that list, we wouldwe'd like to put some of those under surveillance, too.
About a dozen men.
Less, actually.
We can eliminate many of our potentials through retroactive investigation.
Do you have your people? I've asked the chief of patrol to detail Sergeant Ellis Carver from the Western to homicide for purposes of running the surveillance element.
Why not a man from where the attacks occurred? Well, I've worked with Carver on prolonged investigations in the past, and his, uh, familiarity with surveillance tactics is relevant.
Also, I would be inclined to trust his objective assessment when choosing surveillance teams.
Very good.
If that works for patrol, it works for operations.
What are we doing to protect people? Patrol and tactical are running extra cars in all three districts with special emphasis on posts where the homeless congregate.
Ten undercovers dressed as vagrants are working staggered shifts.
We're going to need good undercover cars, as well.
And I'm told that motor pool expects nothing back - from Dickman Street - Whatever you need, detective.
Mr.
Mayor, Public Works tell us Go to Avis if you have to, Hertz.
I don't give a shit.
People are disappearing.
They're dying, for Chrissake.
Just do what you need to do.
The bad news, gentlemen, is we're actually going to have to catch this motherfucker.
The good news is our mayor finally needs a police department more than he needs a school system.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole Yo, can I help you? - I'm looking to work.
Here? Yeah, you need anyone? - How old are you? - 18.
A'ight, man, I'm 15.
I can give you a form to fill out, but the manager, he ain't gonna hire no one under 17.
Hey, yo.
You used to run with the boy Namond, right? Yeah, I used to be on them Fayette corners.
Oh yeah, man, I remember you.
Yeah, I just got tired, you know? Shit got old.
So, I guess you need to bang a while longer, then come back, see if we got something.
Why me? Why not somebody from a district where they caught one of your homeless cases? Well, there's a hitch.
This is some fucked-up McNulty shit.
I don't want me or any of my guys getting burned.
Look, here's the deal.
Command are throwing more resources at me than I can use on my homeless stuff, I got that covered.
But Lester's got a fresh line on Marlo Stanfield, and he needs people to run it down.
A fresh line, huh? He's got a fuckin' wire up is what you mean.
No, no, there's no wire Mmm? Who the fuck are you kidding? I handed him a fresh cell number for Stanfield not two weeks ago.
Listen, I don't know anything about any wire.
I'm just saying he's got a new line on Marlo, and he needs people to run it down.
Bosses stiff-armed him? Jesus.
Guy drops all those motherfuckers in the vacants.
Yeah.
So you're throwing people over to Lester, and paying for it from your case? OT out the ass.
What about the paperwork? - I'll take care of that.
All the sheets, office reports, come through me.
All you people got to do is straight police work.
Daniels gave me a free hand to pull people from any district.
Just make sure you send me people who work.
McNultywhat about cars? Departmental account at Enterprise downtown.
Get what you need.
We delay fleet maintenance for Public Works over the next three months.
We cut snow removal in half and pray for global warming.
That's enough to avoid ugly cuts in school funding for this quarter.
This funds police operations fully, correct? They're back to where they started.
It's time anyway.
We ducked the teacher layoffs, and you got the 15 points on the third-grade MSAs.
If we don't drop crime in this quarter and the next, you are vulnerable, it's now or never.
You're getting traction in this homeless thing.
Governor was on YPR yesterday and Steiner laid him out for the state cutbacks.
Health Care for the Homeless have asked for City Hall's steps.
Candlelight vigil.
You said yes, right? Norman told 'em they could do it if I got a chance to say a few choice words.
Speak of the devil.
I just got off the phone with the Post.
Reporter there wants your comment on a story he's working about Dobey, down in PG, looking to take you on in the Democratic primary.
What? Dobey's getting in? Make matters worse, Upshaw's telling people he might just throw in with said county exec.
Shit, we might have a full-blown PG insurrection on our hands.
Why would they do that? - Lots of pissed-off black folks down there.
Lot of grumblin' about always a bridesmaid, never the bride.
No way can Dobey take the statehouse.
All he's gonna do is make us spend money we'll need in the general.
When we went a-calling in PG last month, who'd you see? Steny.
Maloney, Miller, those guys.
White, white and white.
Not even a cup of coffee with poor old congressman Upshaw.
I wasn't snubbing the guy.
Folks there are tired of being taken for granted.
Fuck, I gotta kiss a ring, don't I? - More than a ring, actually.
Unlimited OT? That's what I'm told.
You say we might not be working the homeless cases.
Not all the time.
Major crimes has a drug investigation that may also need surveillance work.
Shit, who cares what we work? I need the money.
A'ight, you'll be working out of homicide.
Report down there to Detective McNulty.
Oh, yeah.
Rented wheels on the back lot.
Fuckin' A! Ah, man, this is beautiful.
Oh, hell, yeah.
It's weird shit, talkin' to a psychopath like that.
I interviewed Dick Cheney once.
What do you think, Gus? Are we hyping this, or is Templeton writing as it lays? Police say it's real.
And those photographs he got sent? The guy's fucking missing.
I guess we're writing homeless stories till December? Uh-huh.
Why till December? Pulitzer submissions run the calendar year.
Anything a newspaper cares about at Christmas, they give a fuck about by New Year's.
Homelessness it is there, gents.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Fella down in the lobby wants to talk to an editor.
What kind of editor? The kind that worked on the story about that homeless vet.
Scott's piece? Sure they don't want to talk to Scott? Says Templeton won't take his calls anymore, so he walked over here to talk to somebody else.
Tell him someone's coming down.
That all he say? Just walked up and said he got Savino.
Said he gonna get more of our muscle if Marlo don't come to the street and step to him.
Good thing he didn't make me from Monk's apartment.
I kept on lookin' away from the motherfucker, hopin' he ain't remember me.
He was limpin' bad, too.
He had a crutch.
Wasn't lyin' about Savino, was he? Everybody sayin' Omar's on this warpath.
Heard he got a stash house last week.
Everybody's Everybody need to shut the fuck up.
Look, I'm just sayin', if Marlo was all that over June Bug callin' him a name, so that y'all dropped June and his whole family, then what the fuck? Omar out there callin' 'em bitches every day.
Fuck Omar.
What, ya think we ain't gonna catch this dicksucker? This nigger gonna get got.
Y'all gonna tell Marlo? We tell him, we don't tell him.
Man got enough on his plate.
Young 'un on some different opinion shit there.
I dunno.
If I was Marlo Motherfucker, you ain't.
Raspberry? Wild strawberry.
What? - Nothing, man.
C'mon, man, we gotta get across town.
This bitch tells you where there's construction, tells you left, tells you right.
Pretty much blow you if you ask nice.
And look.
Yo, you gotta play some old school R & B shit on that, man.
New car, OT.
This fuckin' detail, man.
I hope we never catch this goofy motherfucker.
Hey, officers.
Look here, yo.
You got two young bucks round the corner.
One in the white tee, the other guy a throwback on.
One got the jump in his dip and the one with a car tire, ya feel me? - Round the corner? - Fulton and Lex.
A'ight.
Thanks, man.
Yeah.
Mr.
Hanning? It's an honor for me to meet you, sir.
Who are you? - My name's Gus Haynes.
I edited the story you're featured in.
Then you're a fucking liar.
Omar.
It's Omar, yo! Gotta giddy up an' go, dawg.
Get! One Two Three Four.
Ya see there? Omar know what one it is.
Look like all your muscle done up and indisposed now.
So you might as well go ahead and drop it out, ya feel me? I'm obliged to walk up in there now.
You workin' a Stanfield corner, which means you workin' for a straight-up punk.
Ya feel me? I'm out here in these streets every day.
Me an' my lonesome.
An' where he at? Huh? Yo, y'all put it in his ear.
Marlo Stanfield is not a man for this town.
You dig? Mmm-hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, eight men, four cars.
Ellis briefed 'em.
They know what's what.
Do they still No, they're just happy for the OT.
Don't worry, Lester.
All right, then.
Just sign the motherfucker and shut the fuck up.
Gimme.
We ready? Cause you gotta figure an extra hour to get round the Capital Beltway this time of day.
You ever done an FBI profile before? - Once.
How'd it go? They take your file, read you back some shit you already know.
Then why do it? - So that we can say we did.
Need a pack of Newport.
Soft pack.
Let me get one of them, too.
Don't shoot! Lowenthal.
Where the fuck is he? - Um, he's - Ah.
There you go, Bunk.
Hey, request for a DNA comparison, case 06H-271.
Latent trace to obtained samples.
And it's a part of the serial killer thing.
It's now a part of that investigation.
That's different.
If it's connected to that investigation It is, here.
It's in my notes.
I never said I was in a firefight.
Not on that day.
Sorry, but you did.
I told you the lead vehicle took a hit from an elevated IED.
Killed the 50 gunner, and blew the hands off the driver.
That's it.
That's enough, man.
Why make the rest of that shit up? - I didn't make anything up.
We sat there having coffee.
Coffee? - Having doughnuts and coffee.
And you said, - What I say? - Can I finish? - I don't know.
I'm hearing about coffee and doughnuts, I'm not hearing If you're not going to let me tell my side of the story A lie ain't a side of the story, it's just a lie.
I don't have to listen to this.
OK.
Scott, let's just relax here.
Both you gentlemen, let's just step back here, please? Now, Mr.
Hanning, forgive me, but do you drink much? You think I fucking sleep under a bridge sober? Sometimes when I have a few, and I do like to have a few, I tend to be a little more descriptive in the telling of a tale.
I know what it is to tell a story.
I've told plenty in my time.
But there's some things that happen, you don't ever fuck with them.
Scott? I believe you, Mr.
Hanning.
I believe that you believe.
That you believe you told me one thing.
But, sir, with all due respect and gratitude, for you and the service you gave this country, you didn't tell me that thing.
You told me something else.
I wrote what Mr.
Hanning told me.
Mr.
Hanning - What if one of the guys, what if a Marine who was there, he reads that shit that you made up? That's why I come down here today.
What if one of the guys sees that? Man, get him outta my face.
Guy's just off.
Off in general, off his meds.
I don't know, but off.
A lot of them are.
I hate to say it - Yeah, he puts on a good front.
We'll call the Marines, get a service record, reach out to some people in his unit, find out what happened outside of - What was it? Fallujah? - Yeah.
If it went down the way you said, we'll let it be.
But if not, we'll chalk it up as a misunderstanding.
But misunderstanding or no, we will write a correction if what we printed wasn't accurate.
And we didn't have coffee.
We had chocolate milk.
You miss what you had, though? I still got too much dog in me to be settled like that.
It wasn't Cheryl.
It was me.
Thing is, is I found a connect with the boy, you know? That part of it feels right to me.
Kids are great.
Yeah.
What about you and Beadie? You were quiet there for a time.
Yeah.
Bunk once told me I'm no good for people.
Everyone around me, he said.
Was he drunk? - Yeah.
But still.
Omar be dead.
I'm tellin' you.
Heard that before.
For real.
You see him? Seen his dead ass layin' right up in there.
Boy up on the corner say he try to rob them Koreans and got killed.
You shoulda let me give him the years, Bunk.
He'd have been better off.
Thanks for calling.
Figured you'd wanna see this, you being so tight with the mope.
Professional job here.
No.
I thought so at first, but the Korean broad we sent downtown said he got done in by a short little fella with a big gun.
Shit, walked in an' lit his ass up.
How short? The boy robbed him? Counter lady said the hoppers all ran up in here for souvenirs.
Took his shotty and his semiauto too.
Ran all through his pockets.
Be my guest.
Back on the hunt, were you? Young 'un say he out here with no car, walkin' with a limp an' shit.
He gonna fall, Chris.
You gonna see.
Marlo need a meet.
For real? Leander, where we at? Still setting this up.
Why, did you catch another one? We're not on anybody yet.
We'll pick it up in the morning.
All right, later.
All right.
Okay.
Doze, Truck, you're on Monk Metcalf.
Bobby, you and Brian are on Chris Partlow.
He usually rides with Snoop Pearson, but if they split, Karen and Tony will pick up on her.
Marcus, Angela, you're the backup unit when we need one.
You're gonna do Stanfield? - Yeah.
All their business is face-to-face, and they meet in the open several times a day.
We're just trying to find the pattern in the meets.
Where do we pick these guys up? Stanfield has every corner between MLK and Monroe, and they start shaping it up around 11 or so, OK? That's when the re-up orders start coming in, when you'll see Monk making the rounds.
Most mornings, Marlo starts off with a parley or two on the playground between Mosher and Lanvale.
Now, these guys seem to be wholesaling, too.
Other dealers, players, anyone who wants to get with him gets him there, OK? Chris and Snoop are usually with him.
And McNulty's got you covered for paperwork.
None of what we do here is necessary for court, so rest easy on that, all right? So we stage here tomorrow at nine.
No sign of him, but I ain't on nothin' else for as long as it take.
You ain't heard? Omar bagged up.
Shit, I thought y'all was gonna tell me.
I just got the word myself from Monk.
Who got him? - Some young boy.
Who? - Ain't heard a name.
Don't even know if there was a why.
Hopper wanna hear a pop, see the damage, ya know? Yeah.
That shit is gone.
We done with this next resupply, you an' me got some time in AC coming to us, don't we? Forensically, this guy is all over the map.
Sexual to a point, but inhibited.
Nocturnal on some, diurnal on the others.
The notion of targeting the homeless to begin with? We've only seen that a couple of times, but in those instances, it's been someone within that cohort.
And they're not usually carrying cellphones and calling newspapers.
You caught a strange one here.
Detectives.
Don't get up.
Arthur Tolan, deputy director of the unit.
Just wanted to drop by and make sure we're progressing your case.
Yeah.
Great.
Thanks.
You might recognize the director from television.
He's done all of them.
You know those news shows.
Always want a talking head when a case comes up.
Greta van Susteren, Nancy Grace, Chris Matthews, that fella with the big forehead, what's his name? - Larry King? - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
What the hell.
It's a chance to get the word out for the bureau.
And I sell some books.
Human Hunters - The Rise of the American Serial Killer.
They've used a lot of my stuff on those CSI shows.
I've consulted for them.
You haven't heard How long you been doing death investigations? Eight years.
We don't see a lot of serial stuff, actually.
Drug murders.
A street robbery every now and then.
Well, you've got a serial case now, so I'll leave you to it.
Good hunting.
Art was lead investigator on the Unabomber thing.
That was, like, 16 years, right? Yeah.
Then his brother ratted him out? Homeless is in at 30 inches.
It's good shit there.
No, really.
There was a real sense of place, especially under the Hanover Bridge when the police came up under there to give the warning.
Drama in small moments like that.
Truth is, I had a tour guide.
Yeah? Yeah, fella I met at a soup kitchen.
Volunteer there.
Ex-addict.
There's something about this guy.
I mean, he's just I don't know, the more he talked, the more I felt like it was him I wanted to write about.
Yeah? - But he's not homeless.
I don't have any peg for him.
Shit, I don't know what the story is.
He's got a name? - Reginald Cousins.
Volunteers at a soup kitchen.
What's he do for money? Sells the Baltimore Sun every morning out by Light Street.
Shit.
Not exactly a growth industry.
He lives in his sister's basement.
She'll take a plate down to him now and then but won't let him upstairs.
Spend some time with him.
What about the homeless coverage? You're covered.
Take a couple weeks, see what you see.
A'ight? Late entries from the copshop.
Two dead in a Charles County house fire, - and a homicide from the city.
Ettlin, what do we got room for? We're shy one brief in the metro digest.
Four paragraphs'll fill.
What's the homicide? A 34-year-old black male shot dead in West Baltimore grocery.
Juvenile suspect is being sought.
Write up the fire.
Scratch the murder, we don't have room.
So what we conclude from a behavioral analysis of the known forensics is the following.
The suspect is likely a white male, in his late 20s to late 30s.
He likely is not a college graduate, but feels nonetheless superior to those with advanced education, and he is likely employed in a bureaucratic entity, possibly civil service or quasi-public service, from which he feels alienated.
He has a problem with authority and a deep-seated resentment of those he feels have impeded his progress professionally.
The minimized sexual activity suggests that this is not a primary motive for the killings.
In fact, the bite marks in the last found victim lacking the DNA of saliva, indicate to us possible post-mortem staging.
The suspect has trouble with relationships and is possibly a high-functioning alcoholic, with alcohol being utilized as a trigger in the commission of these crimes.
His resentment of the homeless may stem from a relationship with someone in that cohort, or his victimization of vagrants might merely present an opportunity for him to assert his superiority and intellectual prowess.
If you get more, fax it down, and we can update the profile.
Special Agent Peters, please call extension 2168.
Thank you.
Thanks for everything.
Thanks.
So, what do you think? They're in the ballpark.
Congressman, I'll do whatever it takes to make things right between us, but running Dobey in the primary is only gonna hurt everybody.
You mean hurt you.
I'm the only viable candidate to beat that Republican prick, and I know you know that.
At the end of the day, isn't that what it's about? Do not waste your breath tellin' me what I already know about our tax-cutting, dump-it-on-the-counties, ass-kiss-every-business-interest governor.
PG county has 100 murders a year, school system held together with spit and glue, and worse rush-hour traffic than Atlanta.
And the man in Annapolis wouldn't piss on us if we were on fire.
Don't hold back, Congressman.
I'm tired of these fuckin' Republicans.
I fucked up, not coming to see you earlier.
But between the votes I can pull out of Baltimore, Montgomery and your county, I am gonna take the statehouse, and then the frustration that you feel is gonna end.
I know you've heard this from every other son of a bitch, but Congressman, I give you my word.
You know, you're right.
I have heard that before.
You wanna keep PG county in your camp, it's gonna cost you a lot more than your word.
Fuck.
You rang? Funny case you got here.
Your victim had an address.
A home.
Paid rent, so we assume.
Maybe even a mortgage.
But not homeless, in any case.
No strangulation, no red ribbon.
Christopher Partlow.
A lesser man might get pissy because you jumped the line, Bunk.
Me? I remember Partlow's name from all those cases last year.
Congrats.
Yeah.
Butdon't fuck with me like this again.
Yeah.
He lied on his mortgage application, huh? - We have a name for that.
The headshot.
I know.
On a mortgage charge, he's certain to plead out.
Billy doesn't plead his clients.
Then he's looking at a lot of years.
A federal jury is a very different animal than what they see on Calvert Street.
I tried to tell him that.
Yeah, but Mr.
Bond wanted to try this himself, see if he couldn't grandstand his way to City Hall.
Well, you have the headshot, detective, but no gun with which to fire it.
We can't take this case.
It's all on paper.
You had cancelled checks.
You had bank accounts.
You had his bag man on the stand.
We had a city jury.
We've been gathering string on Clay Davis for six years, detective.
Six years, we've had a file open on that shakedown artist.
And now, after you city sons of bitches have managed, in a single week, to transform Clay fucking Davis into Martin Luther King Junior, you now come to me with this, which you had in your back pocket all along, looking for the federal jury of mostly white faces to remedy the problem? Well I'm sorry.
Thank you.
What's this? From the pocket of a dead stick-up boy.
Omar Little.
Omar? Dead? You stop readin' the 24s? Killed yesterday at a grocery.
Slow to the draw, he was.
No shit.
One to the back of the head.
Norris and Crutchfield caught it.
They're looking for a juvenile.
He was hunting Stanfield and crew.
And this was on him? - Yep.
Thought of you and Lester when I saw it.
Payback for you getting me back some great lab.
Positive DNA on Chris Partlow.
An alley beating, not one of the ones in the vacants.
Motherfucker.
You have all kinds of news today, don't you? Going for a warrant right now.
Hey, can you wait to serve it? - We're right at the edge, Bunk.
How long? Cause this is an honest fuckin' murder prosecution.
I'll talk to Lester.
Congrats.
Yeah.
No shuckin', no jivin'.
Just good ol' police work.
How about that, Jimmy? Without my bullshit, you're still waiting on lab work.
Listen, Jimmy, the Conaway shooting from Westport? The transvestite? I go to ViCAP, there's another one just like it, down in Carolina, four months ago.
For a road car and two nights in a hotel, I can put this down.
What are you talking about? Yours is a 9mm, this one's a.
32.
Yours was a bar pick-up, this one's a home invasion.
Still worth checking out.
I don't see it.
Sorry.
You're gonna make me spit it out, aren't you? You ever played Hilton Head? I get a call from my brother-in-law a few days ago.
He managed to swing a tee-time for this weekend.
Jimmy, I'm going, God dammit.
The fuck do I care? Go.
You know, this is some real cute shit you're pulling here.
Taking the detail money and doling it around like a priest passing wafers.
I don't know what you're up to but I know this.
If someone picked up a phone around here, your shit is critically fucked.
Two nights and a road car.
Leander, I'm showing Anybody on the move? I got him, coming eastbound on Baltimore Street at Calhoun.
Who's on Monk? Wait one.
approaching route 40.
That's the meet, Lester.
Monk and Marlo on the westside.
We on it.
Corner of Argyle and Dolphin.
Monk and Marlo, as expected.
Now I got 4:40 and 35 coming into Marlo's phone.
Yeah, he's scoping that, Lester.
We know it ain't Monk callin'.
23-06 to 23-12.
23-12.
Who do you have eyes on? - Both my subjects.
They go to their cellphones? - Negative.
They on the move? - Negative.
23-14, nothing moving either.
No one else calling or moving.
Means we got somebody else on this network we don't yet know.
Oh, boy.
Hey, man, let me give you a hand.
All right, you ready? I don't have no money in the moment, but I'll be going down to the scales in a hour or two.
You help me out, I'll go ten for your trouble.
Got a rag for that behind you.
Junk! Junkman! Junk! Junk! Junkman! Junk! - Where the fuck are you going? - Oh, er I gotta see Lester about, um What's all that? Parole info on known sex offenders for five zip codes.
I've also got background info on my desk for everyone we picked up at pier five with a cellphone.
You're actually gonna - Compare the FBI profile with every person of interest I can find? Hell yeah, somebody's gotta.
Come here.
The fuck are you doin'? Maurice Dobey? For governor? Of my state? Shi-i-i-i-it.
That's some cynical politics, right there.
Playin' like you gonna run a man you know can't win to scare people into payin' off.
Dobey could bloody you up, Tommy.
In Baltimore and PG both.
Playin' that race card.
Shameful.
What does Upshaw want to stay out of the race? - Too much.
Are you going to pay? Well, let's just say I'm in negotiations.
I'll do everything I can to make sure this insurrection doesn't spread.
Wonderful! And how much is the loyal support of the Eastside Democratic Coalition going to cost me? Only an endorsement, given that this man here is still standing, I don't believe Rupert Bond is going to find his way into this office.
For my endorsement, you will return the favor and ignore our friends in Prince George's.
And the loyalty of the westside is going to cost me what exactly? Nothin' big.
You got three seats comin' open on the liquor board.
You get one seat.
Two an' you have me raisin' money for you in the primary.
Sold.
And it scares me to think of the damage you can do with two votes on the liquor board.
It ain't right.
No - It just is.
No, I mean, you can't do this.
We're doing it.
Whatever they give us to work the bullshit, I throw to Lester, or Crutchfield or Norris, anyone else who has a case that ought to be solved.
I wasted your day yesterday going to Quantico.
I can't stand to see you wasting more time.
You should be working your home invasion.
Jimmy, you can't do this.
A couple days more, and Lester gets his best shot at Marlo.
We'll never hear from the red-ribbon killer again.
The bosses will lose interest, I'll pretend to run out a little more string, and then it goes right back to the admin office, no harm, no foul.
Whatever you need, Kima, to work your triple or any other case that matters to you.
Manpower, OT, lab work, cars.
Just let me know.
I gotta go.
Man! Junk! Old papers! Sheet metal! Junkman! Junk! Cardboard.
Newspapers.
Hey, Bug, up here.
Whoa, boy.
I get you that ten tomorrow and if you're lookin' for work, I got what needs liftin'.
You know the stable on Bruce Street? Be there before nine.
Dag, Duke, you a-rabbin' now? I'm showing 5:15 and 34 seconds.
I'm up Park Heights but I lost him just past the park.
MTA bus clipped the curb and it knocked down a utility pole.
By the time I detoured, he slipped me.
Well, let me know.
Big news.
Bunk has a murder warrant on Chris Partlow.
The hell you say.
Not one from the vacants.
DNA match on an alley beating.
He lets this go now, these guys are gonna go to ground.
We're right at the edge of something.
He's giving us a couple of days.
He owes me.
I expedited his lab work for it.
And Omar Little? Stick-up boy? - What about him? Caught one in a Korean joint over westside.
Bunk pulled that out of his pocket.
Mean anything at all to us? Looks like he was after Marlo's crew.
Cheese.
Cheese Wagstaff? In addition to their corners, these guys are wholesaling all over town, so I figured Cheese was just one of many.
The note reads like Omar had him under Marlo's wing.
A lieutenant, at least.
Anyway, I gotta go, do more pretending for the rest of the city.
Oh, by the way, II told Greggs.
Oh, McNulty, how many more people She was about to jump into the serial murders.
I couldn't stand to spin her like that.
How'd she take it? Trying to reconnect with my subject.
Anyone who can assist? - 23-15 to 23-06.
I'm in the 2800 block, Edgecombe Circle South, sitting on the female subject.
Maybe that's the other end of your meet.
Edgecombe Circle? Where's that 20? - It runs off Pall Mall.
Where's Pall Mall? - I'm not too good on the northwest.
Between Pimlico Never mind, I got a map book.
OK, see what we got here.
Map 34, grid E3.
Wait.
Whaddaya got? - What'd that last clock show? And these people that I share the stage with tonight are here as representatives of the hundreds, no, the thousands of citizens without shelter, without protection, in this city tonight.
He's right.
Why does this have to be? - Why? Certainly, the last seven years have not brought the same levels of federal commitment to American cities as from previous administrations.
And certainly, our governor has in the last year placed severe restrictions on whatever stopgap state programs were in place.
And what little remained of our so-called safety net was simply shredded, and more and more of our fellow citizens found themselves living life at the broken edges, in the street.
Well, I say that this is not only tragic, it is unforgivable! And I am here to say that no longer can these people with whom I share this stage tonight be invisible, justjust as all of those without shelter in this city, in this country, can no longer be invisible to us.
And it is regrettable that it has taken the actions of a remorseless predator to make us reflect.
But we in Baltimore have been tested, and we have been taught that all of our citizens deserve the full protection of the law, and the full support of the community.
We are saying to this senseless killer, and to all the other ills that prey on those without shelter in our city, not tonight can you prey on them.
And not tomorrow.
Not any longer.
No! We will protect you! Thank you.
She asked you keep that one stirred.
Hey! You were on my thing, right? I guess I owe you a drink on that.
What's your poison? I'm okay, Senator, thank you very much.
Obonda, huh? That's a good one.
You know, that was mostly my evidence you beat back there, right? - You think you could do that again? - Excuse me? Except this time, the jury's a federal one.
Say, nine white, three black.
Time for you to tip on out, detective.
Bank records on that mortgage application you made on the Calvert county property years back.
Now, why don't you take that back to Billy Murphy? Ask your attorney what you're exposed to.
At this point, this is just between us two gentlemen here, Senator.
And no one else till I make it so.
What? You tryin' to sell a case back to me? Motherfucker, if you don't get I don't get paid like that.
I get paid when I come back in a couple nights' time with questions and you, sir, have answers, or my next call will be to the US Attorney's office, and we will go again, but for real.
You can keep that copy.
Ma'am.
Just to let you know, before the fireworks start, I'm spiking this lead.
But you got my back? - As best I can.
Scott.
I'm spiking your lead.
I'm not running a story about a public gathering, a candlelight vigil at City Hall, in fact, where the lead anecdote and quote is from an unnamed homeless woman.
She doesn't want to be known as homeless.
I explained that.
Scott, there were hundreds of homeless down there tonight.
People who voluntarily attended this event.
And I'd guess that any number of them would've let you put their names in the paper.
But her story is great.
Look at that quote.
It's a perfect quote.
Best quote I could ever ask for.
That's my concern at this point.
Jesus Christ.
To hell with you if you think I made it up.
We have a standard that we follow here.
I'm gonna follow it.
Here it comes, Gus.
Yep.
Gus, you're retopping Scott's vigil copy? - I am.
But I thought Anonymous attribution in a public setting.
There's no need for it.
Gus, let's discuss this.
Actually, I did discuss it with the metro editor, and he agrees.
Now, the story's on the copy desk, and as a line editor working this story, I feel I've done my job.
Now, you as the ME, if you want to go another way, you pull the story back and re-edit.
But we have a sourcing policy here, and I know it, and I do not feel comfortable bending the rules in this instance.
Good night.
Yeah? McNulty, it's Christeson.
Listen, my case is down an' I wanted to thank you.
I couldn't have done it otherwise.
No problem.
Hey, it went great.
Kids asleep? Yeah, but they saw you on WBAL.
Anna said your hair looked funny.
Well, just so long as she was impressed.
CNN was there.
I wonder if they'll cycle any coverage through tonight.
A good day for hizzoner, huh? - I don't know.
Nerese shook me down for a mayoral endorsement, and Clay Davis, back from the grave, took a couple of liquor board seats.
Just so as they won't join in Upshaw's war party in Prince George's.
You're gonna endorse Nerese? You told me you prefer Bond.
I do, but this thing with Upshaw Shit, I might even have to give him a bump just to calm him down.
God.
What's he asking? - There.
Look.
What's Upshaw asking? Half of any extra school or anti-crime money I get outta the legislature for Baltimore would go to PG county.
You take that deal and Baltimore's out half of what you want to bring back to the schools.
Yeah, but if I don't win, Jen, I bring back exactly nothing.
Look.
And we are saying to this senseless killer, and to all the other ills Go on.
Straight to bed.
Hey, kiddo.
Hey, McNulty.
Where'd you go to? None of your business really, Jimmy.
And next time, I'm not going anywhere.
Next time, you're gonna be out on your ass, because that's my fucking house.
That's police work, son.
I pull the ADC book to find a location, and I'm on the same page number as the second hand.
And I remember we had a lotta clocks with 34 seconds.
That's the page for West Baltimore.
Right.
Now, the second hand is always the map page.
Longitude, A-through-K, is the hour, and for the latitude, they go by five-minute intervals.
Now, they know the meeting spot in advance, - and they code it by the grid square.
Hmm.
But if the clock has nothing to do with time, how do they know when to meet? Everything's less than a half hour of driving, even in traffic.
My guess is that the standing logic is that they meet within an hour or so.
You know what else makes sense? This clock face when no one was on the move? The times are all at 35 seconds.
And that's the page for East Bawlmer.
Cheese.
Cheese Wagstaff? Marlo's wholesaling on the westside through Monk, and on the eastside with Cheese.
He's got the whole goddamn city.
How do we know it's Cheese? You, too, huh? - You all are good with this? - Kima.
Not me.
All the guys at the bar, Jimmy, all the girls, they don't show up at your wake.
Not because they don't like you but because they never knew your last name.
A month later, someone tells 'em, "Oh, Jimmy died.
" "Jimmy who?" "Jimmy the cop.
" "Oh," they say.
"Him.
" And all the people on the job, all the people you spent all those hours in the radio car with, the guys with their feet up on their desk telling stories, who shorted you on the food runs, who signed your overtime slips.
In the end, they're not gonna be there either.
Family.
That's it.
Family, and if you're lucky, one or two friends who are the same as family.
That's all the best of us get.
Everything else is just There is no serial killer.
There are no murders.
I made it all up.
Theythey were shutting us down.
They were just It's hard to explain.
I don't even know where the anger comes from, I don't know how to make it stop.
They fucking task me, they do.
We took the money from the bullshit investigation, rerouted it to Lester.
Now he's got the cake to take down Marlo Stanfield.
And now that I've done all this, now that I've watched myself do it, I can't even stand to Lester says he's close.
Time will pass, and I'll be able to shut this thing down.
If you don't go to jail.
You had no fucking right.
I know.
This is my life, too.
You start to tell the story, you think you're the hero.
And then, when you get done talking, you
Yeah, Lester.
Where are you at? - On Monk in East Baltimore.
Who's on Marlo? - No one right now.
Marlo's been the hardest to follow.
Too paranoid.
Too much counter-surveillance.
Well, peel off Monk and head out Broening Highway to the marine terminals.
Map 44, grid G-as-in-George 10.
44.
Affirmative.
This is a fresh one.
If they're going all the way out there, it might just be - Damn right.
On it.
New 20 is map 44.
Grid G-George 10.
That's 44 G-George 10.
Flood that grid and look for suspect vehicles.
Take me a while.
I'm up Northeast.
You want me to stay on Cheese? Negative.
New 20 is a priority.
Think we're on the main stem.
Yeah? - McNulty.
It's on.
Yeah? - Oh, hell, yeah.
All right.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole OK, whatcha got? We rolled around until Bobby spotted Chris Partlow pulled up on a lot two blocks from here.
So we sat on him until Marlo posted.
They talked for a minute, then Marlo bounced.
And Chris goes to the warehouse gate alone and a coupla white boys open up.
He's inside now? Entrance is around front, it's the only working gate.
Everything else is rusted up.
Who's watching the front? - Two units.
They're on foot, a block away, with a clear view of what comes in or out.
So what do we do if Chris rolls out? Let him go.
Partlow is muscle.
He's here to make sure it looks right.
And if it does, Monk or someone else'll come on down.
Cheese, too, maybe.
So this is a re-up.
Fuck a re-up, son.
This, here, in the middle of nowhere Miles from anywhere these mopes meet This is re-supply.
Other than Chris, anybody else that goes in there, if it's a Stanfield lieutenant, he's coming out dirty.
Follow them back to town.
If he doesn't know you're on 'em, see where he takes you.
If he catches a scent, fuck it.
Pull 'em over, jack 'em up and get the dope.
And Leander, you want to snatch the man's cell before he has a chance to erase anything.
The case is in the phones Though we're gonna need a title three to take a look at them.
Where are you going? Time to 'fess up.
We straight? I said we straight, right? - Them guns was mine.
Which guns specifically, Mr.
Hill? Whatever guns them cops took out the truck last year.
They mine.
Even though I ain't touched that iron.
Ain't you got to do the bit.
With your limited priors, Mr.
Hill, you're exposed to two, three years, tops.
You'll be well compensated for the time, I'm sure.
No good to us no how.
You on three legs.
Familiarize yourself with the make and model of the weapons you left in the truck, Mr.
Hill.
The details matter.
I get shot up an' then this shit.
Y'all ask a lot, don'tcha? - You can't hack, go down Wal-Mart.
And see if they take care you while you laid up for a while.
C'mon, nigger.
Jeez.
In the department, you take one in the line they give you light duty for as long as you need, - then you get to name your next assignment.
Marlo runs a tighter ship.
Open it.
Six icebox, 20 each.
You count, we wait.
You no count, we go to lunch early.
Suspect number three is in.
You sure? - Been following the damn truck for a week.
Should know by now.
Copy that.
Ticks have six legs or eight? Must have been a readjustment.
London was a sweet posting.
I can't lie.
My only regret is I didn't get the full three-year tour.
Thanks.
It's no reflection on you, man.
Shit, Gus, they even sold the building in Kensington.
We bought that sucker for nothing 50 years ago, and now Chicago sells it off for a couple million pounds.
Capitalization, they call it.
These newspaper chain guys just don't give a fuck, do they? Any idea where they're gonna drop you now that you're back in Charm City? No, I got no idea yet.
Klebanow wants to have lunch, so I guess it'll come at me soon enough.
Up for something now? Depends.
I gotta problem.
I need someone A veteran reporter, quiet, subtle, discreet, good with details, careful to cover his tracks I don't care how far we go back, Gus, no way I'm gonna kill your wife for you.
You know Scott Templeton? City GA.
The guy talking to the homeless killer? Not really.
He got hired after I went to London.
It's better you don't know him.
No opinions one way or the other.
No, no, I'm not saying anything.
I'm not.
I just need fresh eyes on the fella.
Just a careful look.
One of Whiting's pets, isn't he? - I said discreet.
I hope you're wrong.
Course you do.
It sticks.
Dag.
Course it sticks.
It's barb wire.
Sticking's what it's s'posed to do.
Come on.
I ain't got all day.
Hurry up now.
Grab the aluminum strips there first off.
How am I supposed to get back over? - Climb the damn fence.
Do a better job of it second time, I expect.
Grab them steel pipes quick before we get spotted.
Robert.
Hey.
Welcome home.
Thanks.
I need a global printout on everything under Scott Templeton's byline.
All of it, every edition.
Hey, I'm a fan.
Monk is westbound onto O'Donnell.
Cheese Wagstaff is on the way in.
Also, there's a truck leaving, the one we saw back on the loading dock.
That'd be empty.
They've offloaded, it's all in the warehouse now.
Bobby and me will stay on Monk.
Karen'll follow Cheese out, you guys stay on the gate.
Forgetting for a moment our little problem of the serial killer, we came in promising a double-digit drop in violent crime.
Right up on the gubernatorial primary, and we're looking at another record high.
Michael, this department has been crippled by the budget cuts.
For a year now, we haven't had the manpower or the tools.
You have them now.
Now.
But this thing is a ship.
A super-tanker.
We can't just turn it around like that.
More foot patrols.
More cars on the street.
Get a handle on it, dammit.
See, that's what doesn't work.
More cops where people can see them.
More cops on the pavement, more cops riding past, more cops showing the flag so that you guys can say you're being tough on crime.
Respectfully, sir, what works is committing to building a real deterrent.
We take the time to retool, to teach our people not to chase stats, - but to do actual police work.
Who pulled your string, deputy? I was told by our mayor at the outset that there would be no more Band-Aids, no more stat games Then we got hit with the school budget.
And lost some of the time we needed to address the systemic things you're talking about.
Understood.
We will work back on those, and we will support that kind of reform, if not from City Hall then from Annapolis, if need be.
But now, deputy, right now, my boss needs the crime to go down.
Not three years from now.
Not even a year from now.
He needs a ten per cent drop in the next quarter or no one is gonna be in a position to reform anything.
Be creative, gentlemen.
Deputy.
A detective's outside for you, says it's urgent.
Sydnor and I developed a source and ran fresh surveillances on Marlo Stanfield.
And we believe we're about to catch his people very dirty.
What? - We wrapped on that Clay Davis thing and instead of shutting Major Crimes down, we took a couple weeks and got back on Marlo.
With the right warrants, he's about to fall.
How the fuck - There's no time, Cedric.
In an hour or so, I'm gonna need Yeah? - Lester - What's up? We pulled up Monk.
Dirty as a motherfucker.
Mm.
Eight keys of the raw.
No, he jersey-rolled a stop and when we tried to pull him over, he went rabbit on us.
We ran him down on Lafayette, by the overpass.
You got the phone, right? - Yeah, man.
I got it.
Good work.
It's down.
I need teams to arrest Marlo Stanfield, Chris Partlow, and Cheese Wagstaff.
I also need someone from our SAO to get on the horn to Baltimore County for an S-and-S warrant on a Middle River warehouse.
And, oh, yeah Bunk Moreland has a warrant on Partlow for a separate homicide.
He held that back so we could do this business here.
Anything else you've neglected to tell me, Detective Freamon? No, sir.
I think you're caught up.
Hello? - Ronnie, dear.
Hey - Are you sitting down? - Why? Down, down, down, down! Let me see your hands! Get down! Get on the floor! He was trying to erase shit when we tackled him.
Secure this location until we have written search-and-seizure.
Shit's on TV, yo.
With a street value of almost sixteen million dollars in heroin, and charges against high-level traffickers who were going to put this poison on the streets of this city Do this mean I still gotta take that charge for y'all? .
.
hard work, determination and perseverance by our police department.
And while I am told that this investigation is continuing, it is my understanding that there is at least one murder warrant associated with this drug organization, which is believed to have been responsible for many of those bodies found in vacant row houses more than a year ago.
We did not give up on that investigation just as we do not give up trying every day to address ourselves to the task of making this city safe and vibrant again.
Let me just say to all others responsible for the drug trade's assault on the welfare of this city, a day like this is coming for you.
Oh, you are so butch.
I have seen what drugs have done to Baltimore.
Drug dealers do not just destroy individuals.
They destroy families.
Don't forget the communities.
They destroy entire communities.
Today the mayor of Baltimore, our state's attorney, our police department, and our communities are saying, "We have had enough.
" Thank you.
Deputy.
Alma Gutierrez, Sun papers.
Care to comment? - It's a good day for the good guys.
Could you be a bit more substantive? Last time the Sun had me in its pages, - you had me doing things I didn't do.
Regarding? Something about me stabbing someone in the back.
Look it up.
"A source of information "identified the transmission of photographs via cellphone.
" Fuck do that mean? "Source of information.
" - They sayin' somebody talkin'? - Who the fuck even know? I wanna talk to the lawyer.
And you caught a murder, too.
Says the same shit on yours, huh? "From information received, "investigation led to DNA analysis of the victim.
" - They got you on DNA? - My hair, I expect.
"Information received.
" More of that snitchin' shit.
I'm sayin', where the information come from? Only people know about the deed is us right here.
Snoop knew.
Shit.
What about your young 'un Michael? Maybe it was him ran his mouth.
He got picked up, right? - I did that thing for him.
Why would he talk about it an' put hisself in? He been tested on the streets.
Maybe he act different in the rooms downtown.
Boy been throwin' up all kinda backtalk 'bout shit.
Buck' wild about this 'n that.
Like what? Cryin' about how Junebug and his people got lit up.
Cryin' about how Omar in the street runnin' his mouth, callin' for you to step to - Omar say what? - Nuthin'.
Omar tried callin' you out by name.
But, shit, it wadn't nothin' - What he say about me? - Nuthin', man.
Just talkin' shit.
He use my name? In the street? - Talk, motherfucker.
He just, ya know Say that you need to step to and that I dunno, he just runnin' his mouth some.
He call me a punk? - It was bullshit, man.
You ain't need that on your mind.
What the fuck you know about what I need on my mind, motherfucker? My name was on the street? When we bounce from this shit here, y'all gonna go down to them corners, let them people know.
Word did not get back to me.
Let 'em know Marlo step to any motherfucker.
Omar, Barksdale Whoever.
My name is my name.
Don't see the boy snitchin'.
Neither do I.
But you ready to bet your future on that? Ya see that, McNulty? Ya see it? One detective, working the file, running a few things down and bang He's got an arrest.
Shit, now that Chris Partlow's locked up, we might have some witnesses coming forward on those cases in the vacants.
Clear 'em all on paper.
We got the one is all, boss.
One today, more tomorrow.
And from what? From the Bunk just workin' a file.
Business as usual.
But you With your overtime and your cars and your surveillance detail and your bullshit, where the fuck are you on your red ball? Nowhere.
Killer stopped calling.
Stopped killing, too.
I admit it.
I'm nowhere.
From everything we've given you, fire should be shooting out your ass, but no, there you sit like a genital wart.
C'mon, McNulty.
Show me something.
So what are you gonna do now? Keep half a district worth of manpower on the street, chasing bullshit? It'll wind down.
No more killing, no more disappearances, no more calls.
Marlo is in cuffs.
Fuck Marlo.
Fuck you.
What's going on in Klebanow's office? - Planning meeting.
Pulitzer submissions.
This early? The important thing is that we build on this through the end of the year, with no fall-off of coverage.
Exactly.
Scott, we need to start looking at where the response to the problem can be criticized.
The "gotcha".
I know.
At this point, we can't tell what category we'll enter with this, but in public service, especially, greater weight is given to stories that result in changes to policy, or new legislation.
So covering the reactions to our stories is as important as the stories themselves.
Until New Year's, we want to hammer at whatever changes or discussions or actions result from your coverage of the homeless.
And graphics matter.
Our presentation must be clean and professional when it goes to the committee.
You guys really think this has a shot at a Pulitzer? I do and it does.
Being on the Pulitzer board for a couple of terms, I've seen the process up close.
There's a way of doing these things.
Time-honored.
Knowing how is why they pay me the big bucks.
All right.
What do we want to say exactly? With our coverage.
What do we want to say about homelessness? I mean, it's bad.
It's very bad, granted.
But isn't it actually symptomatic of a much greater dynamic We want to rediscover a world that for too long has been ignored.
Examine the tragedy underlying these murders, the neglect - The Dickensian aspect.
Exactly.
Alma, dearest.
This quote from Daniels, "It's a good day for the good guys.
" - He couldn't come up with anything better? - He wouldn't play.
Says we took his name in vain last time we used it.
When was that? When we had him back-stabbing Burrell at City Hall, remember? Do you want me to call Daniels at home? Try him again? - We're past deadline, Gus.
I'll cut the quote.
All right.
Drink with me, Jimmy.
This is what you wanted, man.
Then why do I feel like shit? Postpartum depression, son.
It's the journey, not the destination We got Marlo Stanfield.
What about the serial killer? - Marlo is he.
Daniels wanted me up there at that press conference.
Up there with all the rest of those preening motherfuckers, congratulating themselves on a job well done.
Part of the problem, all of them.
Yet when the bracelets come out and the dope is on the table We've still got the surveillance teams.
The districts still have guys watching the homeless, undercovers dressed as homeless That shit'll end.
It always does.
Well If you ain't gonna celebrate with me, you're gonna at least chauffeur my drunken ass home.
Shardene better be awake, too.
Cause I do believe Lester Freamon's in the mood for love.
Yo, I'm tellin' you, it was Kenard.
Murder police been to his crib three times tryin' to catch up with him.
Bullshit.
Omar got kilt by them Pimlico boys.
They ran up on him with three AKs an' jus' blazed away.
Yoo-hoo.
What up, soldier? - I don't know.
You tell me.
I mean, everybody locked up, right? Damn Yeah.
Cause-a that shit, I'm-a need you for some serious business tomorrow, man.
Anyone I know? - Big Walter.
Big-nose Big Walter? - Nah, skinny Big Walter, the one be right there in front of the Cut-rate on Calhoun and Riggs all the time.
He witnessin'? - Marlo say he need to get got.
So it is, what it is.
You got a problem with that? - We straight.
No need to bring your iron.
I got a clean nine for you with shaved numbers.
I'll pick you up tomorrow night.
You a'ight? Yeah, yeah.
A'ight.
In the last five years, the United States has given 15 billion dollars to fight HIV and AIDS around the world.
But only part of it goes to Africa, where there's a huge epidemic of HIV and AIDS.
I mean, ten per cent of the population of the world lives in sub-Saharan Africa, but 70 per cent of the new AIDS cases are there.
In Kenya, one in seven people have HIV and AIDS, and in Zimbabwe, one in four people have it, according to the article in the New York Human Rights Law Review.
Plus, the US Surgeon General has said that there are 22 million people with HIV and AIDS in those African countries.
In the next ten years, more people will die from AIDS in these countries than all the wars in the 20th century, including World War II, the deadliest war How's it feelin', Bunny? I tell ya, if I had that boy's gift to talk, I'd have really caused a stir.
Look at him go.
Don't sell yourself short.
He's got your way of makin' an argument.
Lucky for him, though, he looks like his stepmama.
And AIDS In Africa said US money can make a huge difference in Africa where even very small amounts can go a long way.
There seems to be an agreement that the money should be spent in two ways - medical treatment and for education and prevention.
However, there is not an agreement on how much money will be needed and what programmes - When do we bounce? - I'm working on bail reviews.
Cheese maybe on a high surety bond, if he wants to put up his mama's house.
Monk, the same.
But with the murder warrant, there is no bail for Chris, and most likely, there's no bail for you, as the charging papers portray you at the top of the conspiracy.
How can they say that when I ain't go near no drugs at all? The full affidavit says they developed a source of information Bullshit.
A source of information who told them that you communicated with each other using photographic transmissions on cellphones.
Coded transmissions.
Ain't nobody know about the code except me, Chris, Monk an' Cheese An' we all locked up behind this.
No one else even have a phone.
Not even Snoop.
No one 'cept the supplier.
You trust the supplier? Well, someone knew and someone told.
Now they've got your cellphones, and they're going for a title three.
So they was on our cellphones No, the affidavit says the source told them the date of your re-supply, they followed Monk and others to the warehouse, followed him out, and found the drugs.
They're going to get their title three and they're saying that by examining Monk's phone, your phone, and the others, they're going to prove the conspiracy.
You see? They weren't on a wiretap, but now they're using the phones and photographs to link you all together.
So who knew that there was a re-supply? Who knew what you all were up to yesterday? - Snoop.
And you trust her? Who else? Known sex offenders, Southern district.
Three possibles.
You want us to sit on them? - A day or two.
Yeah.
If nothing shows, then we'll move on.
OK.
Dead and homeless.
Jack Street in Brooklyn.
Christeson's down there.
Strangle? - Sounds like a beating, actually.
Red-ribbon tied around the wrist? - Actually, it was more of a burned sienna and it was lashed around his dick.
Fuck do I know? Get down there.
Jay, this doesn't sound like Waste of your time, huh? What you have seen here today is indicative of the progress that city schools are making under this current administration.
Now I know the governor has had some harsh things to say about Baltimore schools, but I find that to be cynical and disappointing.
The 15-point jump in third-grade test scores is a trend that can't be ignored.
But we've seen third-grade scores rise before, Mr.
Mayor.
And it doesn't seem as if any gains in that grade can be sustained into fifth and seventh-grade scores.
Kathy, you know, we are committed to substantive change in Baltimore.
Thethe kids that you saw today in this city-wide debate, they are achieving at a high school level and disproving any negative stereotypes about the city school system.
Could you excuse me for a moment, please? Major Colvin.
Just Colvin.
You know, I always wanted to say how sorry I am how things turned out.
There wasn't anything I could have done with your experiment in the Western district.
There wasn't anything that anyone could have done with that.
Yeah, well, I guess, Mr.
Mayor there's nothing to be done.
Mr.
C, you know the mayor, too? Dag.
I can't believe I'm talking to you, Gus.
After that shit you pulled.
That's how you all do.
Slam somebody an' then come back the next day like it never happened.
It's jus' bidness, Nerese.
It was your turn to read about yourself.
Now, if Carcetti's governor and you become mayor is Bond gonna run against you or is he done? - What do you think? - After the Clay Davis farce he smells like he's done to me.
There's rumor that Keiffer wants the job, too.
I'll deal with that as it comes.
Mm-hm.
What about this Daniels fella? You think he's ready to run the cop shop? It's kinda ugly the way he put a knife to Burrell like that.
I mean I read that and wondered where the hell you people got it from.
What do you mean? I was behind Burrell until the moment I wasn't.
And if he had somebody back-stabbing him at City Hall, I'd've heard about it.
Daniels wasn't even on my radar.
Daniels didn't undercut Burrell? At the end, after his name was floated, Daniels went around saying he didn't want the job.
Talk about it.
Well, he's been beat pretty good, but I've got neck bruising too, so it could be an attempted strangle.
No ribbon? - Nope.
Bite marks? - Not that I can see.
This fuckin' guy stinks.
He probably evacuated.
What? He left and he came back? - No, he shit himself.
It's not my guy.
Sorry, rook.
He's all yours.
Does the governor think that's a problem, that it's something that needs to be addressed? Hold on a sec.
Got the military records from the Marines? - Three weeks at least, they said.
Sorry about that.
Hey, Steven, I got a little problem.
Well, it's common in men your age.
I need to get into Walter Reed.
I gotta talk to a vet down there.
The fella that was with our homeless vet when he saw that firefight, the one Templeton was writing about.
Why do we want to go back on that? - I just want to talk to a guy.
Homeless fella gave me the name, said he's an inpatient down there.
After the Post series blew up Walter Reed's shit? If you tell them you're a journalist, you're dead to them.
I know.
You know somebody down there, right? Not at the hospital.
A neighbor of mine is with AW2.
What? - The army's Wounded Warrior program.
She could get you in, if you're not actually writing a piece.
I'm not.
Well, what are you doing, Gus? Scratching an itch.
I do miss the shift-change parties.
No, you don't.
You never missed a fucking one of them.
That was one sweet bust you people put on Marlo Stanfield.
My number, right? I mean, it definitely smells like a Lester Freamon wiretap.
I watched the news, all that dope on the table.
I swear, Carv, I was fully erect.
Your dick got hard? How could you tell? Cause the head was poppin' out of the back of your neck.
Seriously, it was a wiretap, right? Seriously, I couldn't fuckin' tell you if I knew, Herc.
What're you saying? My phone number wasn't shit? What do you want me to fuckin' say, Herc? You're the tits.
Without your little contribution, the whole fucking city slips into the Chesapeake Bay.
Better? - So you grew up there? - Mm.
When did your family move to Baltimore? Reginald.
You down there? - Yes.
Come to the steps.
Got a coupla things for you.
Soap, deodorant and the like.
Appreciate that.
Usin' the washing basin to clean up.
And to pee in.
Don't worry, I rinse it out.
I was wonderin' I got this anniversary comin' up at the meetin' place.
Sometimes kinfolk come along and show support.
I was wonderin', maybe you could It's hard for me to make plans with my schedule at the hospital.
We got a little celebration after.
Thinkin' I could cook us some dinner.
I mean, wouldn't be a fancy thing, mac and cheese, like that, but I guarantee it'll be good to you.
We'll see.
OK.
My sister.
She good people.
Been through a lot, though, you know? - Levy.
'Scuse me? - Levy.
The lawyer.
I know who he is.
I'm not looking for any lawyers.
I'm following the money.
Follow the lawyers.
Levy, Bronfman, Silverstein, Cray All those guys who take the high-end drug work.
They don't just make money off the criminal fees.
How's he - The lawyers? They're the ones who make a path for all this street-corner money.
They showin' all these kingpin motherfuckers how to send it overseas, bring it back, invest the shit.
They the ones who these ignorant ghetto motherfuckers always listen to when it comes to cash money.
And Levy, man, he got the most grease.
So Levy routes it through who? Anyone who got a project or a game in need of cash.
Developers, people lookin' to capitalize, elected folk like myself.
Shit.
There's a lotta people need a dollar now an' then.
And the lawyers take their cut.
On both ends, though I got to say he gonna let you rob one of his clients only so much.
I mean, once you get a Barksdale or a Joe Stewart on the hook, you want to go deep on they ass.
Levy'll let you get a taste, but he won't let you run wild.
Cause once you get past these motherfuckin' lawyers, you can really play the pimp.
This one time, I had this fella named Bell hooked up on this Howard Street condo thing.
Got him so that he wasn't runnin' his shit past the lawyer.
Boy, I tell you, we bled that motherfucker.
Lawyers, huh? Oh, most definitely, detective.
Me? Shit, I'm just small potatoes.
Just a workin' politician from Walbrook Junction, tryin' to make his way from this world into the next.
What else can you give me on Levy? Nothin' other than what I have.
I ain't up in his business or nuthin'.
I just takin' what he throws.
Bullshit.
You got something solid or I'm on my way to the US Attorney.
You ain't nuthin' but a shakedown artist.
How's this? Levy got someone at the courthouse.
Oh, hell, yeah.
Levy been buyin' papers for years and sellin' 'em to whoever needs an early look.
And don't think there ain't no real money in that.
A prosecutor? - I don't have a name.
Truly I don't, but it seems to me, you start lookin' at the people hangin' around the grand jury, you'll find I'm right.
Now I know I've said enough to buy my case back.
You know, you could buy a round, too.
I get you? Nah, feels good, Hubert.
You dig in there, you got a mind to.
You admiring my hand, sir? Oh, call me Gus.
It's hard to get out the habit.
That's pretty damn lifelike.
Yeah.
Prosthetic digits.
Five of 'em, individually controlled.
I got my key grip.
And my power grip.
My precision grip.
And my index point.
These new models got a thumb that rotates, which makes all the difference.
Used to be you just had this one grip, right here for everything.
You got your - Not yet.
Brave new world.
Yeah.
Do you mind if I The AW2 lady says you weren't writin' no story.
No, I'm just verifying details of one we already printed in my newspaper.
Profile of your buddy.
Terry.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, he come down visit me every coupla weeks.
He takes that Peter Pan bus down from Baltimore.
Walks a couple of miles down Georgia Avenue from the Silver Spring terminal.
He's having some trouble, as you know.
Did you read the article? Yeah.
Man who wrote it got some stuff right.
Terry was pissed, I tried to play it off, make him good with it.
What did the story get wrong? Well, that day wasn't no Black Hawk Down thing.
You know, when shit went bad, after I lost my hands, them Habudabi motherfuckers weren't even around after the shit went off.
That's how they do.
How you doin', marino? - Outstanding.
Let me ask you this.
Could Terry have exaggerated? - Mm-mm.
Why not? If he got wound up, say.
Uh-uh.
You lie about combat because you weren't there.
And Terry was.
Two tours.
He's got stories if he wants 'em.
Just not on that day.
He ain't lie, y'all did, sorry t'say.
Kima, what the fuck are you taking about? I'm sayin' you made a mistake letting McNulty run your people from one case to the other.
Why? What's the big deal? Their run sheets, office reports.
McNulty covered them, right? So fuckin' what? They did police work.
They did good fuckin' police work, in fact.
Your guys You coach 'em good, Ellis.
Let them know when IID comes callin' that their answer is they didn't know anything about it, that they did what they were told, they turned in clean run sheets, and they don't know what anyone else sent upstairs for staff review.
Know about what? When you spoke up on Colicchio how did that feel? - Like shit.
You OK with it? It was a forced move.
Tony lost it.
He was around the bend.
But are you OK with it? .
.
Q Jams.
The most hip-hop and R & B.
It's your girl Neke here.
We got our peoples in the street.
They big, they fat, and they gorgeous.
What up, Porkchop? What's up, Neke, it's your boy Porkchop We just gonna sit? I should cut it.
With what they charge at the pump, don't make sense to idle.
You can go.
Where to? Sayin' you can leave the car with me.
You rent by the night, right? I ain't seen no medium of exchange.
Look, when you done, leave my short on the street where I pick you up at.
Mm-hm.
Oh, my God.
Look at this.
Bubs.
Walon, man.
This here's my boy Fletcher.
Newspaper writer been followin' me 'round.
You're welcome to sit in.
But I have to ask that you respect the privacy.
No note-taking, no recorders, what you hear today stays in the room.
Not a problem.
I'm just here with Reginald.
Reginald? Reginald? I'm his fuckin' sponsor and I don't believe I ever got a Christian name out of him.
Reginald.
Hot shit.
See what you done? - What, man? - Come on.
My name is My name is Reginald.
Round the way they call me Bubbles.
Hey, Bubbles.
I'm a drug addict.
Celebratin' my anniversary.
My people couldn't make it here tonight.
I left a trail of fire behind me.
Time gonna make it right with them, I guess.
That's right, it will.
Same thing get me right with myself.
Coupla days ago, I took a walk down in Druid Hill Park, right when the sun was goin' down.
You know how that time be like, with the sun throwin' shadows an' all.
Got me thinkin' 'bout when I was a young man, sittin' in that park.
You know, watchin' the girls, smokin' on a little herb, drinkin' a cold beer.
Y'all know where this is goin'.
I had this moment where, you know, I was wantin' to feel that way again.
I remembered, what y'all said, if the urge was to come, call a group member up and talk.
First thing I called Walon up, him bein' my sponsor an' all, turns out he's on a ride with his motorcycle club.
So I pulled out that sheet that got passed out.
Dialled a few numbers, couldn't get an answer.
I left a coupla messages, but nobody called me back.
You didn't call me.
Cause I would have got up with you, Reginald.
You can believe that.
Obliged.
Well, anyway I didn't get high.
A'ight? See, I knew if I did I wouldn't get that good feelin' back that I was daydreamin' on.
That's right.
It got me thinkin' about a friend of mine.
Boy named Sherrod.
I been carryin' his passin' for a long while.
Like that memory I had about those summer days In the park.
Thinkin' on that make me smile.
With Sherrod, it's more of a hurt.
But not as Not so bad like it was.
Ain't no shame in holdin' on to grief.
As long as you make room for other things, too.
It's all right.
So thank you for listening.
Thank you for lettin' me share.
Thanks for sharing.
Where my gun? In the trap.
You get it when we set up.
A detective is here to see you.
Greggs, I think she said.
What? What's the matter? How you all even know if Walter behind everybody gettin' jacked? I mean, ain't y'all ever wonder if he even deserve any of this shit? Deserve got nuthin' to do with it.
It's his time, that's all.
Yo, pull over in that alley right there.
I gotta piss sumpin' fierce.
You better piss in that cup right there on the floor.
Man, I'm gonna need ten cups.
Yo, pull over, Snoop.
What now, motherfucker? You shy? Smart nigger.
You always was.
How you know? Y'all taught me.
Get there early.
Why? What I do wrong? Chris locked up behind somethin' he done for you.
You downtown with the police.
I ain't say a word.
Yeah, that's what you say.
But it's how you carry yourself.
Always apart.
Always askin' why, when you should be doin' what you told.
You was never one of us.
You never could be.
How my hair look, Mike? You look good, girl.
They're sayin' the only OT that anyone has been seeing has been through getting detailed on the homeless killings.
They say that's the case.
And no wiretaps up? I asked about that.
And I'm hearing, off-the-record kinda, that it was a wire.
And it makes sense, cause that's how Lester works.
He gets hold of a number and works it to death.
Where he would get the number, I have no idea.
But a wiretap is hours, and you say no one is making any money.
Fuckin' department's more fucked up than even I remember it.
Where you been at, Mike? You gotta see this.
There's a serial killer, but he only be killin' other serial killers - Yo, yo.
We about take a ride.
You ain't got no whip.
Just gather your stuff, both of y'all.
Come on, we gotta move quick.
Come on.
Let's go! - OK.
But that means All the calls to the newspaper.
The photographs of the missing man.
We have a wiretap.
McNulty has a - On a cellphone.
Jesus Christ.
He wouldn't dare.
What's the number? It's on the paperwork.
Come on.
Where? Evidence control.
I always thought you were bullshittin' 'bout havin' an aunt out here.
She expectin' him.
An' what's in this box.
It's nice here, huh? Let's go, Bug.
Wish I was going with you.
You gonna have your own room.
She probably got one of them plasma TVs, too.
Them joints is wet.
Let's go.
OK, give that to Aunt Carla.
Tell her there's more behind it when she finds the need.
A'ight? Make sure she cop you some fresh things, too.
I don't need you going to a new school lookin' all Come on, now.
A man don't be sheddin' no tears.
Go on, Bug.
Bring it up front for reseal when you're through, would ya, sir? Thanks, Auggie.
Auggie.
Glad you landed OK.
Yeah.
Beats workin'.
Why here? Why you wanna mix with they kind, man? They give me work.
Who you talkin' to? I know what they be doin' in there, Duke.
I could still hang with you then.
You know I'm too hot.
You remember that one day, summer past? When we threw them piss balloons at them terrace boys.
You remember? Just before school started up again.
Y'know, I took a beatdown from them boys, I don't even throw a shadow on it.
That was the day y'all bought me ice cream off the truck.
You remember, Mike? I don't.
See you round, Mike.
See you, Duke.
Shut up, dawg! Scroungin' mutt.
Fuck that! Give me a cigarette!
But if we - But how can - Jesus Christ.
So this means that - What? - So no one killed any homeless men.
No serial killer.
Some were random killings, some were natural deaths that were likely manipulated.
But they're not linked in any way.
But why? The detectives used the money to fund a case against the drug traffickers responsible for the slayings in the vacants a year ago.
Last week's arrests and seizures were a direct result.
So, uh, let me just understand this.
Um So I've been going out there for weeks, slamming the Governor for his neglect of the homeless and declaring how we will stop at nothing to find the person responsible for preying on the homeless And all the while Hey, Norman, this is my ass here.
That's true, boss.
But it does have a certain charm to it.
They manufactured an issue to get paid, we manufactured an issue to get you elected governor.
Everybody's getting what they need behind some make-believe.
The detectives involved will be suspended and ultimately fired, at the least.
Beyond that, a criminal prosecution on fraud and perjury charges is probable.
You're saying we call a press conference and we say, "By the way, all that stuff about homeless people getting killed "and the Governor cutting the safety net "and us doing everything in our power to catch the guy, - "guess what, the the joke's on us?" - Not to mention that the evidence against the traffickers arrested last week is tainted.
That case could collapse as well.
I don't fucking believe this! You two are on point here.
Word of this gets down to Annapolis, the Governor's gonna wreck me with it.
And if it comes to that, you guys drop on your swords, so help me.
How does word not get out once we suspend the detectives? Never mind sending it to the grand jury for a criminal case.
The cops that did this, they gotta go.
You cannot be telling me I have to live with this.
Deputy, Counselor if you two will excuse us, we are going to discuss this first as a matter of public policy.
Until we can reason the best way to address this, do nothing and speak to no one about any of this.
If this becomes public in the wrong way, a lot of people who were legally responsible for the situation, good people who were, nonetheless, in a supervisory role here are going to suffer.
And that's not the outcome that anyone wants.
What Mike is saying is that we need to be very careful about how to proceed.
I wish I was still at the newspaper so I could write on this mess.
It's too fucking good.
When you walk through the garden Gotta watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus He's gonna save your soul You gotta keep the devil way down in a hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand And we'll all be safe from Satan When the thunder rolls But you gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole In the bottom of the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole In the hole Way down in the hole Lester.
What brings you down? We don't have anything scheduled from you today, I don't think and that's just the Atlantic City casinos.
I like to play.
So what? You lost three times your salary over the last two years.
I ran you through Sentinel Title and came back with seven pages of liens and a third mortgage you folded on two months ago.
Gary, you're done.
What do you mean? We found sealed grand jury papers in the houses of drug dealers and we've got people naming you on it.
You have a problem, Gary.
But you have friends in this courthouse, lifelong friends.
Cop to the problem, give up the names of those that bought from you.
Disbarred? Yeah, no doubt.
But you play it clean from this moment on and we both know you'll probably walk.
Why did you look at me? - I ran the finances on everyone who worked this unit over the last couple years.
You were the only bogie.
If the SAO weren't so screwed up, they'd have been running background checks as a routine.
But I guess you knew that.
I always wondered if they'd get their shit together.
But that's Baltimore, isn't it? So what happens now? Well, for starters You're gonna make a phone call.
McNulty, Freamon, Sydnor Anyone who has the smell of this on them should be gone.
Before the close of business, they should be suspended and, before the end of the week, indicted.
I know, but - But what? We're gonna let this shit stand because it'll hurt Carcetti to air it out? Instead of cleaning house like we need to, he's up there figuring out how to hide the dirt.
I got a mind to call the Governor myself and just let it fly.
Cedric, you can't.
Why not? If I let this thing stand, I might as well just roll over and play dead for every police who knows about this.
We cover this up - Cedric, you can't do anything.
Those are your detectives.
They need someone to blame, they will measure you for it.
I don't give a fuck.
And they'll fire me.
You heard Steintorf.
I was in charge of this thing.
I was on that wiretap.
This is my career.
This is everything.
You go public and it hurts Carcetti.
Maybe he doesn't get to be governor but he is still the mayor, and Bond is still my boss, and you know the weight will not fall on them.
It never does.
Christ.
Everything I worked for, all those years in that courthouse Please.
Sir, Baltimore Sun.
One quarter.
Here you go.
Keep it.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you.
People tip pretty good, don't they? "paying him for what he had done to us.
"I'm sorry for him, man, really, "but I still can't let him come up from the basement.
" - You gonna put all that in the paper? - That's the plan.
Even the Even the parts about Sherrod? Yeah.
What good is What good is a story like that? Like what? Like me, Sherrod.
Gettin' high.
Not gettin' high.
My sister, all that shit in there.
What good do any of that do to put it in the newspaper? People read it, they think about it.
Maybe see things different.
I don't know, man.
Bubs, you don't want me to do this, I won't do it.
I don't know.
Baltimore Sun.
A little bit of sun.
Sun paper.
Look, Rupert, go public with this thing if you want but your shop is gonna come out looking worse for letting it happen in the first place.
The better move is to shut it down quietly and then deal with those responsible through back channels.
We'll bury these guys softly and in a hole so deep no one will ever get close to digging them up.
I can see that.
Commissioner, do you agree? Well, it is a little more problematic for me.
The offenders are in my shop, are they not? Can I have a word with you in private, Bill? Hey, if Rawls isn't in, I'm not either.
Oh, I wouldn't worry about Bill Rawls.
I believe he's about to have one of those road to Damascus moments.
I can see what you're thinking in there.
I can see the gears grinding in that head of yours.
You're thinking, "Hey, I might have some wood on Carcetti here.
"There's no way they can pin the blame on me for this fiasco "without doing their boy Daniels, too.
" You're thinking we'd have to fire Daniels to fire you and that wouldn't sit well, given how much we've already sold Daniels.
Isn't that what you're thinking? You're telling yourself maybe there's a way for you to leverage this, to get yourself a full term as commissioner, to delay Daniels a few more years in exchange for you shutting the fuck up and doing what you're told.
And you know what, Bill? You're not far off.
You do have a little leverage here but just a little.
I wouldn't overplay your hand.
How would you play it? I'd shut the fuck up and wait your turn and, when Tommy gets to the statehouse, he brings you with him to be State Police Superintendent.
Because while you may be a shade too White to run the Baltimore department, you're just about right for the MSP.
I have your word? - And I have yours.
Back channel is the way to go.
See? The Police Commissioner done fell off his ass.
Can I help you? - UmI need to see Mr.
Prezbo.
Someone will come down.
Are you a student here? - Ms.
Donnelly, it's me, Duquan.
It's good to see you, but you're not a student here so I can't let you inside.
I ju I just came past to see Mr.
Prezbo.
Well, he's teaching right now.
I know.
I can wait.
You're gonna have to stay outside.
After the bell, I'll tell Mr.
Pryzbylewski you're out here for him, OK? I'm going to surprise you with something.
You already have.
I got a tip from an informant about a leak out of the grand jury unit.
Sad to say it's checked out.
We know about the leak.
But do you know who it is? Gary diPasquale.
Decent enough guy but he's got a bear of a gambling problem and a bank of drug lawyers who are willing to pay for their look-sees.
Troy Sanders, Marvin Bronfman, Dennis Cray, Sid Silverstein.
And the pick of the litter? Maurice Levy.
I kid you not.
Gary is their leak? He broke right away.
He was ready to give it up.
Needed to.
One-party consent call implicating Maury Levy.
Where's Gary now? - He went up to the second floor to hand in his letter of resignation and went home to wait for the sword to drop.
He's okay.
He's better than you'd think.
You know, if we can turn Levy and some of these other drug lawyers, we can route the drug money all over town.
It's sad business, I know, but at least we know the truth now, right? The truth, you say? Hey.
Duquan, hello.
Snatch-pops.
Hey! Damien.
You lost your mind? - But I said snatch-pops.
I don't care what you said.
You're gonna buy him a new sandwich, and past that, you're gonna ask Mr.
Williams for a broom to clean that up, you understand? Right now, Damien, or you're mine for another week of detention.
I don't want to hear another word.
It looks like you got the hang of it.
What's up with you, Duquan? Ain't nothing.
You still at Southwestern? Well, I'm, like, needing a semester off, you know? I'm outdoors now.
And I was hoping maybe I could get with you and borrow some money, so I can get a place and some clean clothes and get myself settled so I can go back to school.
You're on the street? I got people ready to give me a really good place if I can come up with some money for it.
How much do you need? Couple of hundred.
But if you could go one fifty more, I can enroll in the GED program down BCCC, then I could get my GED without having to go back to Southwestern.
Then I can get my work permit.
I don't think you're eligible for a GED program if you're still of age to attend high school.
Yeah, you are.
I'll tell you what.
Give me a couple minutes, I'll drive you down there.
If you are eligible, I'll write a check right to the bursar's office.
No, Mr.
P, you ain't got to go through all that.
Besides, I ain't got the time to go down there today.
But, you know, I'm gonna.
I can do it, Duquan, if that's what you want.
And I don't even care about the money.
But understand I'm gonna go down to BCCC in a few days and find out if you're enrolled.
And if you are, I'm gonna say, "Great.
"Duquan can come past with his certificate when he gets it, "and we're still friends.
"And he can still rely on me.
" But if you aren't enrolled, then Well, I imagine I'm not gonna see you again, am I? No, Mr.
P.
I'm definitely gonna enroll.
You'll see.
I'll get my stuff.
I'll meet you in the lot and we'll go find a bank machine.
Jay, all I'm saying is we've run down all the leads we had, all the office reports are in and, at this point, barring any new developments, I don't need all this fucking manpower.
Fuck me, Jimmy.
Last week you were crying for every swinging dick you could get your hands on.
The case has gone quiet.
There's no red ribbons, no bodies, no disappearances.
Not a fucking word on the cellphone.
This thing's useless.
You don't want the wiretap either, now? The judge gave us 60 days.
Once that runs out, then Motherfucker, you were the one who was all semper fi for this serial killer and now you're fuckin' the dog.
I'm ready to work the case.
But short of any new leads, what the fuck do you want me to do? I can't make shit up, can I? It is what it is.
If I send the surveillance teams back, don't come crying for more manpower tomorrow, you hear? Shit is like a war, ain't it? Easy to get in, hell to get out.
Pearlman knows everything.
Daniels, too.
They figured it out.
How? - I don't know.
Jesus.
What are they.
.
? - I don't know.
She made it clear there are not to be any further homeless killings.
Nothing more on this case whatsoever.
Does she know about Marlo, that our case? She knows everything.
Daniels knows.
They went to the ECU, dialed up the wiretap number and up pops Marlo's cellphone.
Why aren't we fired? Why aren't we in fucking bracelets? I don't know.
Oh, shit, Lester.
We gotta get outta here.
We gotta think this thing through.
Jesus fucking Christ.
Look, meet me down at Kavanagh's in ten minutes, all right? Jimmy.
How much? Damn, boy.
Teacher must love your black ass.
C'mon with it.
They gonna put out testers up on Poplar Grove.
We gonna be late for it.
C'mon, boy.
C'mon.
Deputy.
To be continued.
Fuck, fuck, fucking fuck.
What's the matter? Cottage cheese for lunch again there, Carl? Just because it happened doesn't mean it's news.
Steve said rewrite.
There's always a salmonella outbreak somewhere.
I don't see why we have to cover this one What's the first rule of rewrite, Spry? Shoot it down.
Did you read this? We are crediting our own coverage with changing the Governor's mind? I'm already to the jump and there's not a quote from anyone crediting us with anything of the sort.
The guv is restoring funding, all right.
That's cos Carcetti's been beating the shit out of him on this issue.
We're just an afterthought.
Whiting can smell the public service Pulitzer? Seem so.
You get a chance yet? - Yeah, yeah.
I read it.
And? Beautiful.
No, no, no.
I mean it.
You got some real Joe Mitchell stuff on the page there.
Really makes me feel like I know this guy and his world.
You just pulled it all through the keyhole.
Thanks, Gus.
We get some good art, I'm gonna push for the Sunday front.
Well, I gotta make sure the guy is good with it.
What do you mean? The part of the story about the kid bothers him.
When he told me about it, he was just talking You told him you were writing about him? I know, but I'm putting the guy's life out there.
I wanna feel clean about it.
You know what I'm sayin'? I remember clean.
Obviously, they're not in a hurry to go public cos we ain't cuffed.
They're pretending on this case like we're pretending.
Why? Carcetti.
He's exposed on this.
How? Just blame it all on us, on the department.
To kill us, they'd have to kill Rawls, Daniels and half the chain of command, and he made those guys.
It's his police department.
So he opens himself up right when he's out there, running for governor.
So they want us to do what? Run it down quietly? That's no problem.
Six months from now, after the election, they might decide to open up and grand jury us.
We could still go to jail and, if not, I expect to be back in the pawn shop unit and you, my brother, are gonna ride the boat.
So what? It was worth it.
Wasn't it? Depends.
Are they gonna let the case against Marlo and his people stand, knowing what they know? Why wouldn't they? It still works on the seizures and cellphones.
It works without the illegal tap.
Yeah, it does.
And they made a big deal about dropping Marlo.
They called that press conference and linked him to all the bodies.
For them to drop the case now You know, you think about it, we've got almost as much on them as they do on us.
That Tom Wolfe wannabe thinks he's gonna get a phrase like that past me? No fuckin' way, motherfucker.
It's like a sweater with the threads hanging off.
Pull any thread Mostly exaggerations and too-perfect quotes, sometimes on the record.
I called some of them back, asked if they really said those things.
You know what the city housing commissioner told me - about the quotes in the flipping story? - Hm? He wished he'd said some of them but that he'd never been that smart in his life.
Someone takes the time to, uh re-report this stuff, it'll get ugly.
What're you gonna do? I don't know, Robert.
I don't know.
Keep my name out of it.
No bail.
They're claiming a propensity for violence and witness intimidation at the bail review, trying to have you held as the kingpin.
They can do that? - They can try.
Depends on which judge they draw.
So they ain't got no bail for Chris, right? I mean, he got the murder warrant.
Monk neither.
Too much weight in his car and he's on parole from the '04 charge.
Best I could do was spring Mr.
Wagstaff on 300,000.
He show that kind of money? - Put up his uncle's house on surety bond for a third of it.
Bondsman is fronting the rest on a fake lien.
Right now, the important thing is not bail, the important thing is this I need you to tell me who else knew your clock code.
I told you.
Me, Cheese, Monk, Chris - and the supply, that's it.
No one else? No one else even had my cell number, except you.
What? - There's a lie in here somewhere.
I ain't lying.
I don't mean you.
Look, the police say the source told them that you were re-upping on the day and word of that might have slipped out, that's possible.
If you were wholesaling all over town They only grab your cells when they arrest you and then they have to go get warrants before they can look at the photos on the phones.
And it's only when they get to the photos and break the code that they have enough to type a charging document for you or Chris, right? I mean, you aren't caught with drugs.
Mm-mm.
Mm-mm.
But they had arrest warrants on both of you within a couple hours.
Which means that they broke the code almost instantly, in no time at all.
They wiretapped me.
My investigator thinks so.
But he doesn't know for sure which unit ran the tap or who manned it.
It doesn't add up.
You gettin' out.
You ain't.
You hit the streets, you round up as much muscle as possible and get that boy.
He did Snoop cause he knew we was on him.
He knew we was on him cause he the one talked about the re-up.
Get your shit together, man.
The bondsman came in with Levy.
A'ight.
I'm on it.
Hey.
Gimme a dollar.
Hey, man, you got a dollar? C'mon.
Hey, pal.
Hey.
Hey.
Pal, you all right? Okay, here it comes, the dreaded crab claw.
No! You know what happens when crab claw goes - It's all crab tonight - No crab claw! Yes, crab claw! Yeah! Crab claw does it again.
Six! Six and I'm out Yeah.
Where? You're fucking kidding me.
It's more bull It's bogus, Jay.
I'm telling you OK.
I gotta go.
I have to keep running the string out.
I've no choice.
You said the bosses know.
Some do, some don't.
The ones that do want us to keep pretending.
We stop pretending, then - Listen, we'll finish this tomorrow night, OK? - Aww! I'll see you in a bit.
What do you think? I mean, puttin' my shit in the streets, huh? Well, it's you.
He's got you.
Yeah, well.
I mean he's got what you're about.
The guy likes you, that shows through.
I mean, you know, he's saying this giving back that you're doing, he's putting that up against Sherrod.
You know, he ain't lettin' you off the hook for shit but he's just puttin' it all out there.
You know, the good and the bad.
You know what? The bad don't bother me to have out there.
Shit, I know the bad.
I ain't lyin' to no one about the bad.
Scared of somebody callin' you good? A lot of folks volunteer places.
A lot of folks share at meetings.
Plenty of motherfuckers wake up every day and not get high.
Man makin' me sound special for doin' what the fuck I need to be doin'.
Read it.
"You can hold back from the suffering of the world, "you have free permission to do so and it is in accordance with your nature.
"But perhaps this very holding back "is the one suffering you could have avoided.
" Fran-zee Kafka.
Who's he? Some writer.
You read his books? Fuck, no.
But you remember Flubber? He handed that to me the night that he had me start leading the Saint Martin meeting.
I kept it ever since.
What it mean to you? You want these? Yeah, my man say he need it back and not to make any copies.
He say he ain't supposed to show it to me before it goes in the paper.
I mean, if I let him.
You gonna? Thanks for the crabs.
Yep.
Gray van.
You get the tag? I couldn't see it from where I was.
Describe the driver.
White.
Six foot.
Not heavy, not skinny either.
Clothes? Nothing I noticed.
Kinda nondescript.
Nondescript? I was surprised, I guess.
I just thought, "Whoa, what's he doing?" - Funny it being you to see this.
It's weird.
If an interview doesn't run late, I'm not even here tonight.
You mind if I get inside? I gotta check in with my desk.
You need anything else, you got my number.
Yeah.
That guy's an asshole.
This smokehound can't remember a thing.
Only motherfucker he remembers messing with him is the fella that found him.
Whatever happened before that is anyone's guess.
Hey.
Someone try to kidnap you, drag you into a van? Okay.
Who was trying to hurt you? My father.
But he was a drunk.
Detective, there's a vagrant over here says he saw something.
What did you see, fella? McNulty? - Johnny Weaver.
Tactical.
Fuck you.
Why didn't you say so? JW.
Tryin' to keep your cover? It's better if everyone here thinks I'm one of the regulars, right? Anyway, what's the ruckus with Petey? - The drunk? - Yeah.
Sun reporter says he's going into his building, he sees a guy trying to drag him into a gray van.
It's bullshit, right? - Yeah.
Petey was laying there 45 minutes before that preppy cocksucker even parks his car.
Thanks.
No problem.
Hey, gimme a dollar, make it look right.
Thank you, Jimmy.
What about the reporter? You could charge false statement, you know.
You lock up every liar, there's no room in BDC for anyone else, right? More trouble than it's worth.
Jay, it's horseshit.
I'm going home.
Yeah.
Brought home some crabs.
I already made dinner.
Put 'em in the fridge.
Cold for lunch tomorrow, if you like.
I can't eat 'em all.
We don't run this shit, especially not off the front.
I saw what I saw.
Alma is on the phone with police PIO and they are telling us on the record and off that they are discounting any report of a possible abduction.
That doesn't mean they're doing their job, and it doesn't mean we Our job is to report the news, not to manufacture it.
Fuck you, Gus.
Nice.
I know they're jealous of how much play his stories get but the truth is We cannot run this shit.
Are you suggesting that Scott made any of this up? You ever notice that the guys who do that, the Blairs, the Glasses, the Kelleys, they always start with something small, just a little quote that they clean up.
And then it's a whole anecdote, and, pretty soon, they're seeing some amazing shit.
They're the lucky ones who just happen to be standing on the right street corner in Tel Aviv when the pizza joint blows up and the human head rolls down the street with the eyes still blinking.
The pictures were sent to him.
The police have confirmed It always starts with something true, something confirmed.
But then you've got a son of a bitch who just happens to be walking in the Guilford entrance - when the mysterious gray van comes - Gus, this has gotten personal between you and Scott and it's affecting your judgment.
I'm moving the story through the state desk.
You should go home, think this through.
We'll talk in the morning.
Maybe you win a Pulitzer with this stuff and maybe you gotta give it back.
It's in my notes, Gus.
Everything that happened, everything that guy said when I got to him.
Every last word is in my notes.
Home earlier than I thought.
Yeah.
Home.
He hit again.
Who did? The serial killer.
Get a grip, motherfucker.
You don't believe me? Check out his left wrist.
You fuckin' with me again, Bunk? Copycat.
Call McNulty.
Get him down here.
Ronnie.
Maury.
Been going over the charging documents on the Partlow-Stanfield drug arrests.
Problematic to say the least.
How so? They grab the phones and, minutes later, they've cracked an elaborate code that implicates everyone.
No one's that brilliant, not at the BPD, anyway.
You don't know Lester Freamon.
I know what I know.
And this feels to me like an illegal wiretap.
Ohh! Your guys were on those phones, tracking my clients long before they went near any drugs.
Untrue.
We get into discovery and I'm going to have no problem knocking down that bullshit about a source of information.
And my sources around here tell me that, with all the budget cutbacks, the only wiretap you all have had up this year has been on the homeless killer thing.
Whatever else you're running is illegal.
Sources? Title threes are supposed to be secret, Maury.
Are you saying you have a source of information inside the courthouse? - It's a figure of speech.
Ah.
What I'm saying is that there's shit in the blood of your case, and, if you wait until this goes past indictments, I'm gonna run wild with it.
We should talk.
Out of court.
Fuck me.
Is it enough? Do you have enough? It has to be.
It should be.
You can't look at everything that Robert found, at the pattern, and not see what this fucking guy's about.
You know that.
I know that.
What, you don't think so? I think that if you do this, these son of a bitches will do you.
Come.
Sorry.
There's been another homeless murder.
South Baltimore.
Careful, Gus.
I can't protect you.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
No fucking way.
Dead for a while.
And I can assume, Jimmy, from the fact that the ribbon ain't red and the fact that you don't need another body because Marlo is locked up - I got nothing to do with this.
Wonderful.
We've eliminated one suspect.
You see what you started here? The bosses are gonna toss it back to you.
No doubt.
The bosses know it's bullshit.
What? - Daniels knows.
Pearlman, too.
How the fuck you - How much longer does this - Can you give us a minute? You turning the world upside down with your bullshit.
How are you not in jail? - I don't know.
The lie's so big, people can't live with it.
Jesus fucking Christ, Jimmy.
I told you.
I fuckin' told you it was going to come to this.
You played with fire, didn't you? And now we're all getting burned Reporting live from South Baltimore, where police have found the body of what appears to be another homeless man.
This one killed and left in a vacant lot Short while ago have refused so far Did somebody not get the message? You're not killing them yourself, McNulty, at least assure me of that.
And the one you disappeared? He's okay, last I checked.
Good.
That's a start I guess.
I thought you got a message.
Copycat.
I got nothing on this one.
Jesus.
How did you do it? How did you get 'em by the medical examiner? Some were real and I just linked 'em with the ribbons.
Some I juked as strangle jobs.
If it matters, I know now - Fuck what you know now.
This was all for money, McNulty? You couldn't live without the OT? The Stanfield case.
It was that.
I know where it went, but you got paid, too.
You and Freamon and maybe a dozen other guys.
It wasn't about the money.
Down the road, when we settle on this, and we will settle on this, I don't expect any of you will ever see another hour of OT again.
I don't expect any of you will be doing police work ever again.
And the only reason this isn't before a grand jury right now is because our mayor can't live with that.
Oh, yeah.
The mayor knows your name.
So this is your last case.
Work it.
If you're half the detective you think you are, you'll put this one down fast and take us all off the hook.
The longer this goes on, the worse the payback's gonna be.
But what does he really know? What he knows now isn't half of what he'll learn when we get to discovery.
They won't be able to produce a credible source of information.
They don't have to if it's not a registered CI A source is only If he can raise doubts in a judge's mind, we could be compelled to reveal our source.
At that point, we're giving up the wiretap.
And he gets the paperwork from the phone company.
Which has Stanfield's number on it.
God.
The only thing we can do is barter.
Then barter.
This can't go to court.
We do have some leverage.
What? Let's just say Mr.
Levy has problems of his own to deal with.
Make this go away and the mayor will not forget that you did so.
Nor will I.
Jimmy, ass up an' help us with this.
Shit is funky.
We should take this into the box.
Where's the pocket contents? We have questions about the reported kidnapping - Those two bags there.
Yes, ma'am.
Well, that would seem to be the newspaper's problem.
I get another fucking call about a gray van, I'm burning that fucking newspaper building to the ground.
Ah.
What? Your homeless guy from days ago, what was in his pockets? - Bullshit.
You got business cards? Yeah, but every card has an alibi.
Let me see.
I thought we were done with this.
So, where you going with this? Hey I think it's down.
Motherfucker, you ain't that good.
McNulty, what's up with it? - You OK, Gus? - Mm? Yeah, I'm good.
What? Alma, what's up? - It's empty.
What's empty? The pad he waved at you, saying it was all filled with notes.
It's empty.
Every page.
Thanks.
What the fuck is that about? Uh-oh.
Alma, TV has police on a sweep of the homeless under Hanover street.
I'll get right to the point.
Please do.
Maury, hey.
Yeah, hi.
You have Stanfield, right? He's your client? - Yeah, him and his people.
I have some stuff, straight from the grand jury that you're gonna wanna see sooner rather than later.
Is this a title three case? - You'll find it interesting, I promise.
All right.
When can you meet? - Tomorrow, after work.
Same money, right? - Yeah, the money's the same.
Good.
We can grand jury Gary diPasquale tomorrow, along with that one-party consent call.
Or here's the deal.
No court trials.
Partlow pleads to all the bodies in the vacants and takes life, no parole.
We'd want the second shooter, too, but Pearson's beyond that now.
Metcalf and Wagstaff plead to possession with intent.
Stanfield takes ten years on conspiracy.
You're blackmailing an officer of the court.
The moment you came in here and offered that quid pro quo, you were guilty of obstruction of justice.
You're right.
I could get six to eight years.
And for bribery of a state's attorney and the violation of grand jury secrecy, you could see 10 to 12.
I'll be out a couple of years before you, Maury.
You come home, first round's on me, I guess.
So you'll let me walk to keep this case out of open court? That file must be dirty as hell.
Huh? The conspiracy charge on Stanfield falls without the cellphones and you and I both know that if someone does some digging, they're gonna find an illegal wiretap and you're gonna lose the phones.
Everhart, 274, Maryland 459 or Ceccolini, 435, US, 268.
Lying cops don't automatically kill a case.
But that's a lot of risk on appeal.
And a lot of dirt for your office to show.
No.
You're scared of the light.
Partlow takes his chances on the legit murder charge only.
The conspiracy count goes and Stanfield and the rest walk.
Stanfield walks but the case goes on the stet docket, not dismissed outright.
And, although I can tell you there are people in this city who can't tolerate a scandal at this particular moment, that dynamic changes after November.
The election.
After November, no one is going to care as much about showing dirt.
If Carcetti wins, he's in Annapolis.
If he loses, he's an incumbent mayor who can take a hit or two.
So tell Mr.
Stanfield that this is his only window.
Partlow pleads to all the murders and both lieutenants plead to the drugs.
Then Stanfield retires.
He's done.
We even get the scent of him on the street ever again, this case comes off stet and goes to trial.
And if we have to put a few cops in jail right behind him, so be it.
We'll bring the evidence and take a hit.
Your client walks away now or the both of you don't walk at all.
Let's go.
Get up.
Oh.
Fucking police.
Man, come on.
Why you fucking with that, man? He ain't done nothing.
Uhh! That's mine.
It's yours.
I know.
Hey, do you have a card? That's not a card.
We met before, d'you remember? Liar.
Black liar.
Why'd you kill your friend? He drinks.
He's always drinking.
But you put a ribbon round his wrist.
Like the others.
Yeah.
Did you see that on television? The ribbon on the wrist? Did you hear about that from other people? Why'd you do the thing with the ribbon? Nobody understands.
You don't understand.
I always know what I'm going to do before I do it, OK? I always know what I'm going to do.
Did you kill the others? Did you kill all of them? Every one of 'em.
II did it because I knew I was going to do it.
I've k I've killed millions.
OK? And they all killed me.
So you did all the murders, huh? You're a coward.
I can tell.
Hey, do you have a card? Jimmy, reporter's in there waiting for a photo array.
What? Jay, he's bullshit.
I know he is but the newspaper made such a fuss, the major wants us to jerk him off, just to say we did.
Hey, detective.
Erum No gray van either.
What? - He doesn't have a gray van.
No gray van.
And he didn't call you on the phone either, did he? He didn't call you the first time and he didn't call you the second.
I did that.
You mortify me in fronta my fatha And those pictures you got.
I took those.
And the missing guy? He's my second cousin.
We sent him up to Atlantic City with a roll of quarters.
And you know why I can tell you all this? Because, you lying motherfucker, you're as full of shit as I am.
And you've got to live with it and play it out for as long as it goes.
Right? Trapped in the same lie.
Only difference is I know why I did it.
But fuck if I can figure out where it gets you in the end.
But hey, I ain't part of your tribe.
You're not serious? You can't - No.
No, I'm a fucking joke.
And so are you.
Now get the fuck outta here.
You walk.
Chris eats the murders, every last one, takes life without parole.
No parole? - No shot.
They've got him cold on the one with the DNA.
Can you sell that? Is Chris loyal? Yeah.
As long as I take care of his people.
Cheese and Monk are looking at up to 20 for the drugs.
But there's gonna be no assets investigation and you come home with all your money.
Why they letting me walk? They don't wanna but there's some shit in their case and they'd rather not show it in court.
But here's the rub.
If you stay in the game, they will, they definitely will.
Right now, with an election going on, they're willing to give you a bye.
But after November, if they even think you're still a player, they can take this case down off the shelf and the shit in the case might not be enough to keep you free.
You understand? Give up the crown.
Well, that's the deal, kiddo.
There's not a lawyer who could get better for you.
How'd that go, boss? Kiddo, you are a gold mine to me.
You know that? You've taken this law firm to a whole new level.
Me? - You don't tip me to that bad wiretap, I've got all kinds of trouble.
But now, if Marlo takes the deal, he's gonna get a walk after being charged in a multimillion-dollar drug seizure.
That doesn't happen very often and, when it does happen, the name and number of the defense attorney goes in the front pocket of every respectable drug trafficker.
You're a genius for what you brought me on this.
I'm just doing what I do, right? You need to know something, all you gotta do is ask.
That's what a detective is, right? Here.
You should come over for dinner tonight.
Yvette's making brisket.
Your house? You're mishpocha now.
If you say so.
It's down.
Not that this thing is ever going to trial.
That guy has NCR written all over him.
Can't argue.
A padded room at Clifton T.
Perkins is definitely called for.
He go for all of them? - No, sir.
Just the last two.
He deny the others? - He ain't exactly denying anything in there.
I mean, he'll cop to anything we damn please.
Then go back and get it.
Excuse me? If he's NCR, what the fuck is the difference if he cops to two or six? Either way, they tie his arms and feed him green Jell-O.
Sir, he did the last two.
Motherfucker.
You are a cunt hair away from indictment and you see fit to argue with me? I did what I did.
I know.
And now I'm standing responsible for two fresh murders.
I know what I've done here.
But I'm not doing this.
This is over and all of our citizens can rest soundly in the knowledge that the man responsible has been apprehended by the diligent efforts of investigators.
Mr.
Mayor, is he being charged with all of the murders - or just two? - It is my understanding that Uhwe are charging the last two incidents but it is my understanding that he is suspected in all of the crimes.
We're waiting for DNA test results.
Indications are that he may be mentally incapacitated and therefore additional prosecutions would prove redundant.
I would also like to credit Deputy Commissioner for Operations Daniels with not only bringing these cases to their proper conclusion but also for solving last year's slayings in the vacant row houses.
He has given us such excellent work that I think that now is as good a time as any to announce that we will be sending the deputy's name forward to the city council for confirmation as Baltimore Police Commissioner.
Acting commissioner Rawls, to whom I am also extremely grateful, will serve in an advisory capacity pending new responsibilities at City Hall.
Scott, you should be working the main bar on the arrest with Alma.
I, um We're going to want your byline in this coverage.
Yeah, I don't feel so well.
My stomach I think I I gotta go home.
Sorry.
Having ducked the bullet on that homeless mess, I want you to know that the Mayor and I both appreciate your discretion.
But right now we can't take our eyes off the ball when it comes to crime overall.
Looking at your weekly UCRs from the districts, I am not seeing the kind of decline that's going to measure out to a ten per cent drop in the quarter.
They're clean.
Excuse me? The stats Clean.
They're gonna stay clean.
Either we fix this police department and the crime goes down or we don't and the crime stays up.
Commissioner, we're talking about a little help in the next couple quarters, that's all.
No.
I can't.
You're quiet on the homeless fiasco but this makes you squeal? What Tell the Mayor his stats will be clean before the election, after the election.
You're right.
They can't fire you.
Not without it bouncing back on City Hall.
If you don't mind being buried in some backroom unit, you can stay for as long as you can stand it.
Or until you get the pension.
But, at the same time, I can't let you do police work.
Not anything that's gonna find its way into a courtroom.
I won'tdo that.
For both of you, that's over.
So Marlo walks.
Or you go to jail.
And you couldn't do any better with Levy? I mean, giving up the money I got what I could.
You lost the money trail, Lester, when you decided to start coloring outside the lines.
This isn't on me.
What the fuck you mean, you selling? - I'm sellin' the connect.
How much, yo? - Ten million.
God damn.
Or a higher bid if I hear 10 from more than one of y'all.
Y'all think it ain't worth that, I stick that shit back in my pocket and y'all can go back to runnin' that stepped-on New York shit.
You don't mind me askin', why you sellin'? I mean, even from inside here, you can take a slice for just layin' in the cut, nigger.
Ain't gonna be in here long.
Case they got against me already fallin' apart.
But the truth is, I'm done with this gangsta shit.
I've been there, done that.
You somethin' else other than a gangsta? Huh.
Businessman.
Yeah, Tall Man, I can't get that shit wrapped around my head neither.
Anyway, y'all can't get my price up, maybe y'all pool y'all money.
But supply only gonna deal with y'all after I make the intro.
Then I'm out.
You've got a problem.
I thought Daniels was your boy.
We both got a problem if crime doesn't drop.
Carcetti loses the statehouse and you aren't mayor.
And even if he wins, Nerese, you're stuck with a police commissioner that won't work with you.
I'm not stuck with anything.
Daniels either comes around or he's done.
We just anointed him.
We can't go back on that now.
He knows it.
Either he learns his place or he'll be offering to resign.
You ain't the only one knows how to play this game.
What to say about this piece of work? Fucked if I don't find myself without the right words.
Me, as gifted a golden throat as any of you cocksuckers being loosed from religion, are ever likely to hear.
What can I say about the dearly departed? - I mean, really - He died young.
Too young.
Not even 40 years old.
Though, had it lived, his dick woulda been 134.
Shut up.
It's coming to me.
Uh He was the black sheep, the permanent pariah.
He asked no quarter of the bosses and none was given.
He learned no lessons, he acknowledged no mistakes.
He was as stubborn a Mick as ever stumbled out of the Northeast parishes to take a patrolman's shield.
He brooked no authority.
He did what he wanted to do and he said what he wanted to say and, in the end, he gave you the clearances.
He was natural police.
Yes, he was.
I don't say that about many people, even when they're here on the felt.
I don't give that one up unless it happens to be true.
Natural poh-leece.
But Christ, what an asshole.
And I'm not talkin' about the ordinary, gaping orifice that all of us possess.
I mean an all-encompassing, all-consuming out of proportion to every other facet of his humanity chasm.
From whose bourn, if I may quote Shakespeare, "No traveller has ever returned.
" - The fuck did I do? - Shut the fuck up.
You're dead to us now.
Hey, hey! - Oh, here's his partner in crime.
Now, now.
Be gentle.
Be gentle.
I'm a civilian now.
Be gentle.
Your papers went in, uh? - Yeah, this afternoon.
32 years.
And four months.
Oooh! Mm, mm, mm.
Y'all did a fine job with him, you did.
He look to be about ten years younger than I remember.
Well, c'mon, there's enough room for both of you to be laid out.
One at a time.
You don't crowd a man at his own wake.
Come on, Lester.
Come and snuggle.
Shh, keep our secret, Jimmy.
I got Shardene with me tonight.
If you gentlemen will spare us this unfortunate homoerotic lapse, I will conclude my elegiac remarks.
Then do it, you gabby motherfucker.
To conclude To conclude, I say he gave us 13 years on the line.
Not enough for a pension but enough for us to know that he was Put the fucking song on.
Despite his negligible Irish ancestry, his defects of personality, and his inconstant sobriety and hygiene a true murder police.
Jimmy I say this seriously.
If I was laying there dead on some Baltimore street corner, I'd want it to be you standing over me, catching the case.
Bullshit.
Because, brother, when you were good, you were the best we had.
Hear, hear.
Yeah! Shit, if you was lying there dead on some corner, it was probably Jimmy that done ya.
Fuck you! If you caught the case, you'd be standing there pissing in my ear.
How did Nerese Campbell get it? You think I asked? You think it even matters? She gave it to me because she thought you'd listen to me.
So now they want me to go.
The way she expressed it is that she wanted you to stay if you could come to your senses.
Come to my senses.
She wants me to juke the stats for Carcetti, this quarter and the next, hide the crime, get him elected as governor and make her the Mayor.
So do it.
Burrell juked them before you.
Warren Frazier before him.
And, after you're gone, Rawls or whoever will juke them.
So what? I'll swallow a lie when I have to.
I've swallowed a few big ones lately.
But the stat games, that lie, it's what ruined this department.
Shining up shit and calling it gold, so majors become colonels and mayors become governors.
Pretending to do police work while one generation fucking trains the next how not to do the job, and then I looked Carcetti in the eye.
I shook his hand.
I asked him if he was for real.
This is the lie I can't live with.
If I do, then Nerese has me in her pocket whenever she wants me.
And I'm no good to anyone like that.
Then go.
Withdraw for personal reasons or health reasons.
Whatever.
You've got your law degree.
You're not gonna starve.
But if you don't go, they'll wreck both of us.
There's not enough in here to indict me.
And the joke of it is, I've seen enough the last few days to have them indicted.
For what? Then use it, Cedric, or at least threaten to.
People will get hurt.
People I care about.
Then you're done.
There's enough in that file that you'll never make it through confirmation hearings.
And enough so that my career is dead before it even gets started.
The tree that doesn't bend breaks, Cedric.
Bend too far, you're already broken.
Marlo on a walk.
And the money, Jimmy, she gave that away, too.
Yeah.
We don't get to follow the money.
Hey, been wonderin' where you was.
I didn't know if I should come out on this here.
Why the fuck not? Was me who told Daniels.
I didn't want to do it behind your back but, uh it had to be done.
Anyway It was great being on the job with y'all.
I just wanted to say that too, I guess.
So what? You ain't gonna drink with me? I am if you want.
Detective, if you think it needed doing I guess it did.
You coming? Yeah! Milton came with 600.
And Little Glenn is in for three.
I got five from me and I got five from Chinaman to cover.
We still short 900.
I can go that.
No thing.
What? Motherfucker, where you get that kind of scratch? You don't think Cheese know this here game? We sellin' dope an' coke in Baltimore, nigger, any of y'all ain't got that kind of money need be ashamed.
You still puttin' up more than your share with that.
The way I look at it, we all gonna be more than paid once we own the connect, so Shit, nigger, we was good when your uncle had it.
You had to go ahead and put up with Marlo.
See that? See now, that's just the wrong way to look at it cause Joe had his time and Omar put an end to that.
Then Marlo had his time, short as it was, and the police put an end to that.
And now, motherfucker, it's our time.
Mines and yours.
But instead of just shutting up and kicking in, you gonna stand there cryin' that back-in-the-day shit.
Cheese - There ain't no back in the day, nigger.
Ain't no nostalgia to this shit here.
There's just the street and the game and what happen here today.
You right.
When it was my uncle, I was with my uncle.
When it was Marlo, I was with him.
But now, nigger What the fuck did you do that for? Now we short the nine.
That was for Joe.
This sentimental motherfucker just cost us money.
Hey, Alma I just heard.
The Carroll County bureau? That's how they punish me? Why not just send my ass all the way to Pennsylvania? What'd they tell you? That I did an excellent job, that this had nothing to do with anything but trying to make the county bureau stronger.
Alma, I didn't tell them about the notepad.
I left that part out.
I told them.
When I heard you were in trouble, I went to Whiting, told him I thought you were right about Scott.
I told him about the notepad.
Did he make all of it up? The calls from the killer? The pictures? Some, not all.
Why? - Look around.
The pond is shrinking.
The fish are nervous.
Get some profile, win a prize, maybe find a bigger pond somewhere.
Whiting, Klebanow, Templeton They snatch a Pulitzer or two and they are up and gone from this place.
For them, that's what this is all about.
Me? I'm too fucking simple-minded for that.
I just wanted to see something new every day and write a story with it.
Alma, you'll write your way outta Carroll in no time, watch.
About as fast as you edit your way off the copy desk, huh? Congratulations, Sergeant Goette.
I know you'll do well in the Eastern.
Glad I got to do this at least.
Congratulations, Lieutenant Carver.
Thank you, sir.
I'm just sorry it won't be you I'm serving under.
Word gets around, huh? It's on WBAL today.
They said you're leaving for family reasons.
I guess I got some kids somewhere I don't even know about.
They say on BAL who they're sending up as acting commissioner? Say it ain't so.
Ladies and gentlemen, as what may be my last official act as a Baltimore police officer, allow me to congratulate all of the promoted officers, their families, their fellow officers and their friends.
You ain't careful, they may make you major, then you'll be truly fucked.
Good job.
Thanks.
Proud of you.
Thanks.
Bag it.
See now, there you go, giving a fuck when it ain't your turn to give a fuck.
Lehman's squad was up.
I needed the OT.
Yeah, now you got a shooting with no wits, no suspect and no prayer of it going to black.
Picking up the phone like a goddamn rookie.
Shame on you.
Stop squealin' like a bitch.
An' make sure you don't step on that shell casing behind you.
I ain't gonna kick no shell casings behind me.
It's there on the side.
I'm gonna step back and kick no damn shell casing you don't mark with letters and numbers.
I understand.
And you gotta be in the system.
They sent you the form.
They told me that wasn't good enough.
They said they wanted the other paperwork.
And you applied for SSI, Mr.
Belton? - Yes, ma'am.
Well, let's go inside and look it up on the computer.
Hey, you remember me? I brought this guy in a few weeks back, just wanted to see how he was.
He wandered out after a couple nights.
Sorry.
Where, um - Where do the homeless go around here? - Different places.
Down by the river, over in the warehouse district.
Some of the places I don't think it would be safe for you to go.
I'm police.
Well, I used to be.
Wait here.
I'll see if I can find you a map.
Thanks.
Come on, Mr.
Belton.
and if the major could find his ass with his hand, he'd know that we have more than enough to be up on a pen register.
Lieutenant Carver told him so.
But fuck if he isn't trying to shut this thing down.
Alls I'm sayin' is a phone call or two and you're gonna find out that they're getting some kinda pressure from somewhere to sit on this thing, even though we've tied three killings to this crew.
Does the Police Commissioner know? Him? He wouldn't know police work if it took down his front door on a warrant.
Just, uhkeep my name out of it.
New Westport is like Howard Street ten years ago, except the land's cheaper and there's more potential for mixed use because of the waterfront location.
There you are.
You can't put a price on a water view.
Oh, yes, you can.
You definitely can.
Andy, he's gotta meet Tommy and they're leaving early so let me borrow him for a moment.
Sure, no problem, I'll, uh Nice to meet you, Mr.
Stanfield.
You know who you were talking to? Andy Krawczyk.
Very connected.
Very big with development around the harbor.
He's someone you're gonna wanna know well.
But kid, do not Do not get in a room with him alone.
You want me in there with ya, believe me, otherwise guys like that will bleed you.
I want you to meet Tommy Flanagan before he leaves.
Yeah, gimme a minute.
I need to, um - Bathroom? - Yeah.
Down the hall to the right.
Hey, watch that stuff.
You'll put on weight.
But next time, I want you to make sure that you watch this money Don't.
Don't do it.
Time to give that up.
Do you know who I am? Name's Vinson.
Used to be Marlo's bank, but Marlo ain't around no more and you still moving money for other players, so I'm thinking some of that money need to be mine.
Shit.
You just a boy.
That's just your knee.
That motherfucker shot me.
Nice doing business, gentlemen.
God damn! No way, that's bullshit.
I heard it different.
The real story about Omar is that a bunch of cops made it look like them New York boys killed him.
But it was them.
They're the ones that really killed him.
Listen, motherfucker, I know what happened to him.
Them police had nothing to do with it.
No New York boys neither.
So Omar got an AK, right? But he's surrounded.
It's like eight, nine motherfuckers up there and they all got nines.
But he like, "You all think you" - Fuck you lookin' at? - You, nigger.
Do you know who I am? Nigger, you know who I am? Shit! Yeah.
If you walk through the garden You better watch your back Well, I beg your pardon Walk the straight and narrow track If you walk with Jesus On me, all right? You gotta keep the devil down in the hole He's got the fire and the fury At his command Well, you don't have to worry If you hold on to Jesus' hand We'll all be safe from Satan Thank you.
Thank you.
When the thunder rolls Thank you.
This is, uh This is a great day for Democrats and it's a great day for Maryland.
Zorzi I hope I get this by e-dot.
OK, three minutes, for Christ's sake.
Don't get your panties in a knot.
Commissioner Valchek.
Fits like a glove.
All the angels sing About Jesus' mighty sword And they'll shield you with their wings Keep you close to the Lord Madam Prosecutor, gentlemen Don't pay heed to temptation The first case up and I have to recuse myself.
Your Honor, I appreciate your concern.
You gotta keep the devil Way down in the hole Congratulations, Superintendent.
Welcome aboard.
Thank you, Governor.
Happy to be aboard.
Thank you.
All the angels sing About Jesus' mighty sword And they'll shield you with their wings Keep you close to the Lord Don't pay heed to temptation for his hands are so cold You gotta help me keep the devil Way down in the hole Way down in the hole Way down in the hole Way down in the hole Way down in the hole Larry.
Let's go home.

