                      SECRETS OF THE CYBERCULTURE


             COMPUTER COWBOYS ROAM THE TECHNO-UNDERGROUND
             SEEKING INFORMATION - OR JUST WREAKING HAVOC

                       ARTICLE BY A. J. S. RAYL




® Something's happening here. What it is ain't exactly clear. There's
apunk with a computer over there, tellin'me I got to beware....¯

     It's a time-warp scene in some weird science-fiction story as I head
down Telegraph Avenue just outside the Berkeley campus. The smell of
patchouli wafts through the air, overwhelming other scents of burnings
incense. The driving beat of the Doors' "Break on Through" pusates from
a record store - a fitting soundtrack to the movie surrounding me.
Sidewalk merchants are hawking everything from tie-dyed T-shirts to
turquoise jewelry. Me? I'm on a mission -to meet my connectionin the
counterculture. It seems conspucuously like the Sixties. But familiar
sights, sounds, and vibes aside, things have changed. After all, this is
the Nineties. Abbie Hoffman is dead. And no one is attempting to levitate
the Pentagon anymore.
     But if you thought the revolution was over, think again - and read
on. These days, a new breed of younf politicized radicals, known as
cyberpunks, roam a techno-underground. Inspired and fueled in part by
ideas emerging from science-fiction literature, these cyberpunks are
computer cowboys riding the trails of cyberspace - a nether world of
bitstreams and databases inside computer networks - circumventing
software barriers in search of information and services or sometimes just
to wreak a little mischievous havoc. They've got the equipment and, they
say, the technical knowhow to slip into virtually any computer system and
affect changes with global ramifications. With the tap of a key, they
claim, they could effectively cripple the economy or shut down
communications systems the world over. If that is true, then cyberpunks
hold the potential for becoming the most powerful coundtercultural force
ever.
     The government has taken them seriously. It has launched at least
two major operations, one in 1990 called Operation Sundevil, to quash the
movement. The problem: The consensus in the computer community is these
government agents know considerably less about the technology than the
computer experts and the cyberpunks, a charge government officials deny.
As Secret Service Special Agent John F. Lewis put it, "There are some
very talented infividuals who are unfortunately misdirecting their
energies. But to say they're leaps and bounds ahead of law enforcement
personnel isn't true." Still, so far their efforts, have seemed dubious
at best, serving more to fan the flames of the socio-political fire now
raging over the control of and individual rights in the electronic
frontier. I duck into a coffeehouse and manage, with relative ease, to
spot my connection - one of the hackers for whom the word cyberpunk was
created. he's tall and slender, wearing black jeans and sporting a pair
of John Lennon specs. He has a boyish, almost baby, face, which belies
the brain power it so handsomely covers. His eyes are intese, at times
piercing. Overall, he appears every bit the intellectual anarchist for
which the Berkeley scene is perfect camouflage. He's known in the techno-
underground as Michael Synergy.
     Twelve years ago, Synergy was your basic computer nerd. He spent his
time exploring cyberspace, staging his own quiet protests by going where
he wanted, when he wanted. Synergy became so adept at infiltrating
systems that he's become a legend. Todat he remains something of an icon
in the techno-underground.
     Synergy evolved - as did cyberpunk - from the late Seventies'hacker
community. "There ware a lot of us playing with the phone systems, and
then slowly we began to find our ways into other networks," says Synergy,
as he takes a sip of tea, adjusts his Lennon specs, and leans back in his
chair. "My whole reason for breaking into systems way back then was to
become educated. At that time, there wasn't a C-compiler on
microcomputers, so I broke into Bell Labs just to learn C." Most hackers
used their talents then, Synergy says, simply to learn. For the most
part, the original hacker crew was apolitical - more interedted in the
machines than in the politics.
     As they began traversing software barriers into the secured systems
of major corporations, governement, and military-industrial complexex,
however, that began to change. They gleaned a lot of inside, top-secret
information on just about everything, including covert military
operations. At the age of 14, Synergy, now in his late twenties, managed
to slip into a supposedly secure top-secret computer network run by the
intelligence community and the Department of Defense. The DOD took him
out of cyber circulation and brought him into their circle. He worked for
nearly three years conducting "penetration testing and security design"
for the national Security Agency, Secret Service, and FBI, as well as the
DOD.
     Consequently, Synergy became politicized. "it used to be really hard
to find things out, but nowadays systems are so well networked together,
if you know which machine to talk to in the intelligence community, it's
fairly simple to break in," he says. "The work I did for different
government agencies gave me an inside view, and that strengthened my
opinions. It made me very political and very antigovernment. Once you
have access to the system, you begin to clearly see the bars of the
prison we live in."
     While Synergy was being politicized, writers on the science-fiction
front were at work writing about such youthful electronic frontier
outlaws. They projected them into dark, desolate, not-so-distant futres
where technology both rules and runs amok, and set them in adventures in
cyberspace where data serves as the landscape and territories are
traversed mathematically, not geographically or physically.
     The term cyberpunk was brainstormed back in 1980 by Bruce Bethkeas
the title for a short story he'd written about a computer-hacker gang -
bored suburban kids out to raise hell. Bethke had been hanging around,
playing keyboards on the periphery of the punk New Wave music scene while
working for Radio Shack. "I wanted a word that grokked these punk
attitudes and the technologies," he says. The story, which was published
in the magazine Amazing in 1983, remained obscure - but the title took
seed, first in the science-fiction community and then in the media at
large.
     The success of William Gibson's first novel, Neuromancer, published
in 1984, actually launched the cyberpunk on the map of the collective
public consciousness. Set in a future urban dystopia, the novel centers
on Case, a software cowboy for hire. Burned by Japanese microbionics
experts who bonded tiny sacs of a wartime Russian mycotoxin to his artery
walls, Case is suffering a slow death. He finds a man who can cure him,
provided, of course, that he is able to penetrate a highly secured
computer system and acquire the key information. In order to get inside
the various systems, Case links his brain directly to the computer, or,
in the terminology of the novel, "jacks in to the net."
     While the word cyberpunk never appears in the Neuromancer text, it
was the catch phrase that reviewers used to define his book ans the new
genre that suddenly seemed to be everywhere. Other cyberpunk-oriented
works by such writers as Bruce Sterling (Schismatrix, Islands in the
Net), Pat cadigan (Mindplayers, Pretty Boy Crossover), and John Shirley
(Eclipse coroca) captured SF fans.
     Gibson, whose own early inflences were such "subversive" rock-'n'-
rollers as Lou Reed/Velvet Underground and Steely Dan, had been watching
the puck-music scene with a certain enthusiasm. In fact, he says, the
rebelliousness of puck served as the inspiration, and his own boredom as
the fuel that motivated  him to begin work on Neuromancer and numerous
other cyberpunk short storied (many  first published in Omni). Gibson
wrote two more cyberpunk-oriented novels - 'Count Zero' and 'Mona Lisa
Overdrive' - and garnered acclaim as the godfather of cyberpunk. It's not
a title, however, that he's assumed.
     "It's really just an accident in history," says the author, whose
roots go back to the counterculture of the Sixties. Gibson actually knew
very little about computers and high technology: He pounded out his
cyberpunk works on a 1938 manual typewriter while listening to early
Bruce Springsteen albums. "I didn't set out to start a movement, but for
whatever reason, "he says, "those books of mine have become a rallying
point."
     Co-cyber writer Sterling agrees that Gison was in the right place at
the right time. "to some extent, people always credit the messengers,"
says Sterling, whose first nonfiction work, Hacker Crackdown, about the
government's efforts to stop hackers, was published this fall. "We write
books for a purpose - not just to be cute. Science fiction is about
making up weird ideas and throwing them out there. And now all that stuff
we were writing about 'is' out there - loose in the world."
     What happened when cyberpunk science fiction hit was a case of life
imitating art. "Suddenly, the concept of cyberspace took hold and
inspired the real hackers, and they began to redirect their efforts in
the technical arena. It gave us a vision of technology's potential," says
Synergy. "most ocmputer enthusiasts and a lot of the hackers are very
thechnical, but not very intouch with the world at large. The difference
is cyberpunks are very technologically capable but at the same time very
worldly, connected to reality and what's going on in the culture."
     In ssence, the cyberpunks are to the hackers as yippied were to
hippied - political, savvy, worldly versions of the alternative culture.
They don't hack out in places, but in cyberspaces, communing, often
anonymously, on computer bulletin-board systems or through "zines" -
electronic magazines. While there are several hardcopy magazines devoted
to things cyberpunk - the most popular being 'Mondo 2000' - cyberpunks do
their real business in the net.
     "Listen to these titles - Anarchy 'N' Explosives, Bootlegger, Clut
of the Dead Cow Files, Freaker's Bureau International' National Security
Anarchists, Phuck-in Phield Phreakers, Rebel's Riting Guild, and TAP
(Technological Advancement Party) Online, which is actually the
resurrection of Abbie Hoffman's old magazine," says Sterling, leafind
through a compilation of computer sources recently sent to him.
     The vast majority of bulletin-board systems and zines, however, are
legal and aboveboard. In 1985, 'the Whole Earth Review' created the
'Whole Earth Lectronic Link, known as the WELL. "While this electronic
medium existed, there was no publicly available community," says founder
Howard Rheingold. "The purpose was to create a public utility to enable
people to build a community and do business online." Current WELL members
include communications pioneers as well as SF authors like Sterling, and,
of course, cyberpunks. Such above-ground efforts signify that cyberpunk
is merging in pop culture, assuming meaning as a lifestyle, a way of
thinking and, hence, a movement whose numbers - at least in terms of
subscribers to the mindset - are beginning to grow.
     Central to the cyberpunk viewpoint is the belief that governments -
nation states - are giving way to multinational corporations - global
states. These entities are located not so much in one geographical
location but throughout the world via global networks on the electronic
frontier.
     In this electronic landscape, cyberpunks see a future where those
who have information will be separated from thoose who don't. By
disseminating information - be it corporate plans or top-secret
government operations - they believe they can take on self-as-sumed roles
that range from benign socioopolitical watchdogs capable of averting
global opression to anarchists retaliating against corporate greed by
wreaking havoc on computer systems - or as electronic terrorists ready,
willing, and able to take out an enemy simply by shutting down systems.
     It comes as no surprise then that the governement is up in arms. In
Secret Service and FBI circles - the government agencies charged with
computer law enforcement - the term cyberpunk has almost come to mean
computer criminal. And cases like the 1988 Internet "worm" have
undoubtedly fed the crackdown fever. Created by 25-year-old Robert
Morris, the worm shut down some 6,500 computers and caused an esimated
$150,000 to $200 million worth of damages to computer systems nationwide.
Because his defense attorneys were able to prove the destruction was
unintentional, Morris was sentenced to a $10,000 fine and 400 community-
service hours.
     Since then, there have been several instances of what the hackers
clam are government attempts to suppress the cyberpunk media. Steve
Jackson Games is a case inpoint. Secret Service agents raided this small
Austin-based games manufacturer - publishers of fantasy-role-playing and
board games - in March 1990. They seized computers and a stack of
software disks and ransacked the company's warejouse. Some materieals
seized in the raid, including the game GURPS Cyberpunk, have yet to be
released, and Jackson has filed a civil suit against the government as a
result.
     Spurred by this incident, the computer community rallied, holding a
meeting on the WELL in late spring 1990. Mitch Kapor, creator of Lotus 1-
2-3; Apple cofounder Steve Wozniak; Sun Microsystems pioneer John
Gilmore; and computer enthusiast and Grateful Dead soongwriter John Perry
Barlow formed the Electronic Frontier Foundation to protect freedom of
speech and expression in cyberspace.
     With the recent arrests of numerous hackers for illegal entry and
data possession, the battles over control of the electronic frontier and
hackers'rights are now being waged in court. One critical issue is
whether information belongs to a given corporation or government or
whether it belongs to the world. for those who are relaying information
through computer networks and zines, here is also the question of First
Amendment rights' or Hackers'Richts. How free is a free press in the
electronic medium? This debate over intellectual freedom isn't entirely
benign. The access to knowledge, like freedom, is risky when absolute.
     Things have changed in the hacker community. the first generation of
young computer enthusiasts, now in their twenties, operated from a more
mature, concerned-for-the-future frameof reference. But synergy admits
danger may lie ahead with the new generation of hackers: "The new kids on
the block, the new 14-year-old cast and crew, don't have a very good
handle on morality, knowing what they should and souldn't be doing with
these wonderful tools they have."
     Furthermore, computer technology has outmoded old forms of political
power. "Anyone who was around in the Sixties is aware of the concept that
all political power comes from the barrel of a gun and the power to
control is the power to destroy," Synergy says. "Now, with information
tools, people like me have the capability and the access - because of the
way system is structured - to shut everything down - not just locally,
but globally. And, it's getting worse every day.
     Interestingly, Synergy's vision of the future liew on the opposite
end of the cyberpunk spectrum from Gibson's. "I think Gibson is about the
most pessimistic mother fucker I've ever run into," says Synergy. "His
basic premise is that science will be abused, period. I tend to be more
of an optimist: If we were going to blow each other up, we'd have done it
by now. And, actually having been inside and looked around, I seriously
doubt whether we actually could blow ourselves up."
     "Well, if you're living in south Central Los Angeles," says Gibson,
"the world is a lot uglier than the world in Neuromancer. And, in some
cases, you'd be very lucky to wind up with the Neuromancer future. It's
hardly the most dystopian vision."
     The cyberpunk future is still up for grabs - between utopia and
dystopia. But indications are that the world will be one of corporate
states, moving away from governments of locales to goveernments of
multinational corporations whose increasing monopolization of information
wields more and more power and control over individuals as well as nation
states. The new tools for diplomacy, politics, espionage, and terrotism
will be electronic ones.
     While cyberpunk seems to have the potential for being the most
potent, effective, bohemian force ever to take on civilization, its
impact remains to be seen. One thing, however, is certain: CYBERPUNK
ISN'T JUST SCIENCE FICTION ANYMORE.

